COURSE CODE: OOU – EDU 201  
COURSE TITLE: CURRICULUM AND TEACHING METHODS.  
LECTURER -IN-CHARGE: DR ODUBELA  
DATE: FRIDAY , 7TH NOVEMBER 2025.  
 
WEEK 1: COURSE OUTLINE  
WKS  TOPICS  
I.  Definition of curriculum.  
II.  Types of curriculums.  
III.  Curriculum development process.  
IV.  General teaching methods and struggles.  
V.  Developing lesson learnt and lesson known.  
VI.  Assessment of learning.  
VII.  Resources for teaching and improvisation.  
VIII.  Classrooms management.  
IX.  21ST century teaching skills.  
X.  Setting up and managing online classes.  
XI.  Attending to students for special needs.  
XII.  Classroom presentations.  
 
WHAT IS CURRICULUM  
Curriculum is a general outline of what is to be learnt , within and outside of the school, under the 
guidance or supervision of the teacher.  
Curriculum is both planned and unplanned activities of teachers and learners for the purposes of 
academic achievement.  
 
LECTURE 2  
TOPIC: CONCEPT OF CURRICULUM  
Curriculum can be summarized into three things:  
1. Program of activities  
2. Program of instructions  
3. Program of guidance.  
 
❖ Franklin Bobbitt  1918,  defined curriculum  as a series of things which children and youth 
must do and experience by way of developing  abilities to do the things well that make up 
the affairs of adult life, and should be in all respects what adults should be.  
❖ Caswell and Campbell 1935, defined curriculum as all the experiences children have 
under the guidance of the teacher.  
 
❖ Festo 1956, defined that curriculum must consists essentially of disciplined study in five 
great areas:  
i. Commands of mother tongue and systematic study of grammar, literature and writing.  
ii. Mathematics.  
iii. Sciences.  
iv. History.  
v. Foreign languages. (Ralph Tyler)  
 
❖ Daniel & Laurel Tanner 1988, defined that curriculum is the reconstruction of knowledge 
and experiences, systematically developed under the guidance of the school to enable the 
learner’s increase his/her control of knowledge and experience.  (Hilda Taba)  
 
❖ Ralph Tyler 1957, defined curriculum as all the learning of students’, which are planned 
and directed by the school, to attain its educational goals.  
 
TYPES OF CURRICULUMS  
1. Child centered  
2. Teacher centered  
3. Core  
4. Written  
5. Hidden  
6. Integrated  
7. Subject centered  
8. Holistic  
9. Activity centered  
10. Null.  
 
LECTURE 3  
TOPIC: CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND ELEMENTS OF CURRICULUM  
Curriculum development process is a process that typically involves planning, designing, 
implementation and evaluation. It is cyclic in nature.  
It begins with setting educational goals and accessing the needs, then moves to designing the 
curriculum through implementation in the classroom and finally to evaluation, revision and 
feedbacks.  
There are four stages involved:  
Stage 1 – Curriculum Planning Stage  
❖ Identify the needs.  
❖ Set the goals.  
❖ Develop a clear learning outcome.  
Stage 2 – Curriculum Design Stage  
❖ Select your content . 
❖ Select your learning . 
Stage 3 – Curriculum Implementation Stage  
❖ Develop your materials.  
❖ Train the teacher’s or trainers.  
❖ Facilitate.  
Stage 4 – Curriculum Evaluation Stage  
❖ Review what you have learnt. Review your activity.  
❖ Evaluate.  
❖ Feedbacks.  
 
ELEMENTS OF CURRICULUM  
1. Curriculum Objectives : Derived from the needs of the learners, society.  
2. Curriculum Content s: This refers to the subject matter. What you want to teach. It is 
gotten from resources around, library, websites, demands of the society.  You present the 
body of language that you transmit to the students.  
3. Curriculum Methods & Materials: This is called the “learning experiences”. (a) Why do I 
want to teach? (b) With what do I want to teach?  
4. Curriculum Evaluation: Divided into two – formative (caried out during the course of the 
study) and summative evaluation (carried out at the end of the lesson).  
Domains you evaluate on:  
a. Psychomotor domain – Deals with skills or practices gained.  
b. Affective domain – Deals with behavioral changes (values and attitudes).  
c. Cognitive domain – Deals with the intellectual knowledge gained. This is what you know 
and comprehend.  
How to evaluate:  
You evaluate through the systematic questioning in the classroom, through continuous 
assessment tests, through assignments, and through projects.  
 
 
LECTURE 4  
TOPIC: CORE TEACHING SKILLS AND THEIR COMPONENTS.  
A teaching skill  is the behavior of a teacher, which facilitates the students learning both directly 
and indirectly. This could include the art and the behavior of the teacher which makes 
communication possible.  
CORE TEACHING SKILLS AND COMPONENTS  
1. The Skill of Introducing a Lesson:  As a teacher, you must have adequate knowledge 
about the content of your lesson.  
Components:  
a. Maximum utilization of previous knowledge of students.  
b. Using the appropriate device.  
c. Learn to maintain continuity.  
d. Relevance of verbal and non -verbal behavior.  
 
2. The Skill of Probing Questions: The success of teaching depends upon the skills of 
probing questions. It is helpful in putting the desired, meaningful, clear, relevance, 
specific and straight -forward questions to the students for the purpose of testing their 
knowledge and understanding. As a teacher, whenever you are teaching, try to throw 
questions to your learners to exercise and engage them.  
Components:  
a. Prompting  
b. Seeking further information.  
c. Re-directing.  
d. Increasing critical thinking skills.  
 
3. The Skill of Explanation: This shows the relationship between different concepts in your 
lesson. As a teacher, you must be able to have different ideas, events and phenomena that 
showcase in your lesson. You must be able to tell how, why and what, of a concept. It is 
when you under stand your subject matter that you will be able to communicate 
effectively to your students.  
Components:  
a. Clarity  – Be clear enough when teaching. Be doubt free.  
b. Continuity.  
c. Relevance to the content.  
d. Cover essential point/part of your lesson.  
 
4. The Skill of Illustrating with examples:  
 
5. The Skill of using the board (white/chalk board):  
 
6. The Skill of Stimulus Variation:  
 
7. The Skill of Reinforcement:  