 
 
 
OLABISI ONABANJO UNIVERSITY AGO -IWOYE  
FACULTY  OF EDUCATION  
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN KINETICS AND 
HEALTH EDUCATION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENTAL UNDERGRADUATE  
HANDBOOK  CCMAS  
(2023- 2029)  
HEALTH EDUCATION  
PROGRAMME  

1 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS   
The University Identity        Page  
 
A Brief History of the Faculty of Education………...........……..........  
 
The History of the Department of Human Kinetics  and Health Education....  
Degree in Health Education  
Past Heads of Department……………………………………….  
 
Academic Staff in the Department of Human Kinetics  and Health Education (HKHE)  
 
Health Education  Programme, Course codes and their Descriptions  
 
General Regulations Governing Certificate and First Degree of the University  
Changing of College/ Faculty/ Department and Procedures for Adding or Deleting courses by 
students  
Sanction for non -registration for courses and related issues.  
Course unit system terminologies    
Registration for Courses………………………………  
 
The Department of Human Kinetics  and Health Education  
Programme .. .......…………....................................................................  
B. Sc. Ed. Degree in Health Education…………………………………..  
 
  
2 
 THE UNIVERSITY  
 
Olabisi Onabanjo University (formerly known as Ogun State University) is a State University 
established in July 1982 but started academic activities for its first set of undergraduates in 1983. 
It is an autonomous public and non -residential institution est ablished by the Ogun State 
Government with the sole purpose of providing higher education in the Humanities, Sciences and 
Technology and encouraging the advancement of learning in all the major spheres of human 
endeavour.  
 
The University is located at Ago -Iwoye in Ogun State with campuses spread over the state. The 
Health Sciences and Pharmacy are at Ikenne and Sagamu (Remo Campus), College of Engineering 
and Technology is located at Ibogun, (Egba Campus), Faculty of Science is located at the Main 
Campus Ag o-Iwoye, and the Main Campus is housing the University Central Administration and 
Faculties of the Social and Management Sciences, Education, Arts and Law at Ago -Iwoye (Ijebu 
Campus), while College of Agricultural Sciences is located in Ayetoro (Yewa Campu s). 
 
In addition to these Faculties and Colleges, the University has a number of academic and service 
units, including the entrepreneurial and General Studies Unit (GNS), the Sports Centre, Institute 
of Education, Institute of Transport Studies, Centre for  Continuing Education (CCED), Centre for 
Gender Studies among others.  
 
In all, the University has produced over 20,000 graduates and diplomates since its establishment. 
These sets of graduates span a wide variety of disciplines and are making way in all sp heres of 
life. At the beginning, the University was lucky to have a selfless and committed Governing 
Council headed by Professor Akin L. Mabogunje, a former Dean of the Faculty of the Social 
Sciences, University of Ibadan with Late Professor John Olubi Sod ipo as the Vice -Chancellor 
while Chief Nathaniel O. Sotoyinbo was the Registrar, Mr. S. B. Onigbinde was the Bursar and 
Chief (Mrs.)  ‘Laide Soyinka was the University Librarian. The other principal officers that came 
later and indeed the present management  team under the leadership of the Vice -Chancellor (Prof.  
Ayodeji Johnson Agboola ) are keeping the flag flying.  
The focused and purposeful leadership given by this foundation management staff gave the 
university a sound footing that made it to stand the tes t of time.  
 
 
 
 
  
3 
 THE UNIVERSITY IDENTITY:  
A. THE CIRCLE  
Stands for First letter in the word ‘Ogun’  
B. THE DECORATED CIRCULAR FORM  
 Represents Opon -Ifa, the tray used in Ifa divination who’s Odua  (Sacred verses) 
encapsulates several centuries of Yoruba thoughts and experience. Thus, the  tray stands for 
traditional wisdom, knowledge and culture.  
C. THE BOOK  
 Stands to relate meaningfully effectively to traditional experience and culture in its serv ices 
to Nigeria, Africa and the world at large.  
D. THE RISING SUN  
 Represents Olabisi Onabanjo University throwing its golden rays of knowledge far and 
wide to illuminate the darkness of ignorance, poverty and diseases.  
E. THE BLUE (NAVY) LINES  
 Below the sun, represent the splendid flow of the OgunRiver, from which the State derives 
its name.  
 
F. THE GOLD COLOUR  
 Represents the enlargement of knowledge.  
G. THE BLUE (NAVY) COLOUR  
 It is not only the favourite  colour  of the Yoruba as exemplified in the ADIRE clothing, but 
it also possesses the coolness and calmness which are important virtues in the Yoruba 
traditional concept of the good person or OMOLUWABI.  
H.        UNIVESITY MOTTO  
Excellentia Humana Et. Patriae Opu s 
(The Flowering of Human Abilities and Service to the Fatherland)  
I.         UNIVERSITY COLOUR  
(NAVY BLUE)  
 
 
4 
 A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE FACULTY OF EDUCATION  
 
The Faculty of Education came into existence in 1982 and operated as a unit until 1983 when 
students were formally enrolled for courses in education. The faculty  under the leadership of Late 
Prof. S. H. O. Tomori and assisted by a handful of staff occupied  part of the only storey building 
in the University then until 1984 when it moved to the Mini Campus, Ago -Iwoye.  
 
In 1983/84 Dr. Amos  Tinuayo  Oduyale succeeded Prof. S. H. O. Tomori as the Dean and he was 
later succeeded by Dr. Kayode Ajayi in 1983/84. Three departments were created out of the unit 
operated as Faculty.  They were:  
1 Department of Educational Foundations and Management (EFM)  
2 Department of Curriculum Studies and Instructional Technology (CSIT).  
3 Department of Physical and Health Education (PHE)  
 
The Department of Educational Foundations and Management was housing all Arts -related 
subjects e.g. Yoruba, English, History, Christian Religious Studies/Islamic Religious Studies and 
Guidance and Counseling.  On the other hand , 2 Department of Curriculum Studies and 
Instructional Technology (CSIT) housed all Science and Social Science related subjects. In 
1986/87 session, the faculty  made case for the creation of Institute of Education.  The faculty  has 
since cultivated a tradition of excellence in teaching, research and service. Amongst the 
achievements of the faculty  are:  
1 The first Faculty to produce academic journal.  
2 The fir st to establish post -graduate programme  
3 The first to establish Sandwich programme  
4 Production of high-level  manpower for the teaching profession in Ogun State and in Nigeria 
and,  
5 Involvement in research activities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
5 
 HISTORY OF DEPARTMENT OF HUMA N KINETICS AND HEALTH EDUCATION 
(HKHE)  
Introduction  
The Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education was established in 1984.  At the 
inception it was named the Department of Physical and Health Education and later the name 
Department of Sports Science and Health Education was adopted in 1997 following an approval 
of the University Senate.  
 
In 1989, the National Universities Commission (NUC) published the approved minimum academic 
standards in Education for all Nigerian Universities in an effort at ensuring a uniform intellectual 
and professional background.  Consequently, the programme in the Department of Human Kinetics 
and Health Education is appropriately reviewed to accommodate the proposal in the NUC 
publication cited above.  
 
The Department of Human Kinetics and Health Education makes provision for the pursuance of 
either a B.Ed. Degree in Human Kinetics or B.Ed. Degree in Health Education.  
 
VISION OF THE PROGRAMME  
 
 
HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAMME:  The programme  foresees the possibility of a human 
environment that is devoid of preventable diseases through healthy living principles and practices 
that promote the general well -being of the human population.  Therefore,  the curriculum provides 
an avenue for the achie vement of this goal.  
 
The department aims at providing all round and sound education in the field of Human Kinetics 
and Health Education.  
 
 
MISSION OF THE PROGRAMMES  
 
 
HEALTH EDUCATION:  The Health Education programme is designed to produce scholars and 
practitioners of health education who can contribute meaningfully to the prevention of diseases, 
the promotion, sustenance and maintenance of a healthy human population  
 
 
PHILOSOPHY AND OBJECTIVES OF THE DEPARTMENT  
The National Policy on Education interalia states that “A healthy Nation is a Wealthy Nation”.  
The department believes that this is in congruence with the general philosophy of Physical and 
Health Education which states “A sound mind in a sound body”.  The programmes in the 
department are therefor e aimed at enhancing the health and the physical well -being of the general 
citizenry, through human capacity development in the areas of health education, promotion and 
safety living.  Also,  through sports practice and human movement activities that would enhance 
human productivity.  
6 
  
The academic course work has been designed to evolve in the students an understanding and 
knowledge of how to meaningfully manipulate various physical activities, and health programme 
to help man to cope with the physical, soci al, healthful and psychological environment.  In 
realization of the fact that Physical Education and Health Education are core subjects in the Junior 
Secondary, electives in the Senior Secondary and both are examinable by West African 
Examination Council ( WAEC) as O’Level subjects.  The course is designed to make products of 
the department cope with the contents of the syllabus at these levels.  The Health Education 
programme is designed to make the products effectively teach Health Education which is now a  
West African Education Council (WAEC) subject.  Furthermore, the programme is designed to 
provide trained Health Educators.  Physical educators and Sports Scientists for Ministries of 
Education, Health, Social Development, Youth and Sports, the discipline d forces as well as being 
self employed by setting up private fitness clinics.  The two programmes offered in the department 
also provide students with the capacity to pursue graduate studies in any of the specialized areas 
of Human Kinetics or Health Educ ation.  
PAST HEADS  OF DEPARTMENT  
Dr. Amos T. Oduyale (Late)  1984 – 1987  
Dr. O. Adekunle Adesanya (Late)  1987 – 1990  
Dr. J. A.  Oyewusi  1990 – 1992  
Dr. (Mrs.) K. O. Ekpo  1993 – 1994  
Dr. O. O. Odedeyi  1994 – 1997  
Dr. O. O. Omotayo  1997 – 1999  
Dr. Kayode Oke  1999 – 2000  
Prof. O. O. Odedeyi  2000 – 2003  
Dr. Tola Oduyale  2003 – 2007  
Dr. G. A. Adebayo (Late)  2008 – 2009  
Dr. O. O. Kalesanwo  2010 – 2011  
Dr. S. B. Ogunleye  2011 – 2013  
Prof. Tola Oduyale  2013 – 2017  
Dr. Kayode Oke  2017 – 2019  
Prof. Tola Oduyale  2019 – 2021  
Dr. A.  A. Okundare  
Dr. S.A. Okueso  2021 -  2024 
2024 -date  
     
       
   
  
7 
 LIST OF ACADEMIC STAFF IN HUMAN KINETICS AND HEALTH EDUCATION  
PROGRAMMES  (HKHE)  
S/N
O NAME  SPECIALISATION  RANK  QUALIFICATIONS  STATUS  
1. Dr. S amuel  A. 
OKUESO  Health Education  Reader /HOD  B.Sc. (Ed.) (Ogun),  
M.Ed. (Ogun),  
Ph. D (Ibadan).  Full-Time  
2. Prof. Olutola 
ODUYALE  Exercise Physiology  Professor  B. Sc. (Ed.),   
M. Ed. (Lagos),  
Ph. D. (Ibadan)  Full-Time  
3. Prof. O lufemi . 
O. 
KALESANWO  Health Education  Professor  NCE, (Ogun),  B.Sc. (Ed.) 
(Ogun), M.Ed. (Ibadan),  
Ph.D. (Ibadan)  Full-Time  
4. Dr. Ayobami A. 
OKUNDARE  Sports Organisation and 
Administration  Reader  B. Sc. (Ed.), (Ogun)    
M. Ed. ( Ibadan ),  
Ph. D. (Ibadan)  Full-Time  
5. Dr. I saac A. 
OYEWUMI  Sociology     and 
Psychology of Sports  Senior Lecturer  B.Ed., M.Ed., Ph. D. 
(Ibadan)  Contract  
6 Dr.  R. B 
Olubela  Curriculum and 
Curriculum 
Development  S/L B. Ed (2001), M.Ed. 
(2008), Ph.D. (2015)  Full time  
7 Dr. 
Oluwakemi D. 
Olurinola.  Computer 
Application/Education  S/L B. Ed (2016), M.Ed. 
(2021), Ph.D.  Full time  
8 Dr. Abolaji   
Bukki  Business/Entrepreneuri
al Education  S/L B.Ed., M.Ed., Ph. D. 
(Ogun)  Full time  
9 Dr. Mary A. 
FALEKE  Health Education  Senior Lecturer  B.Sc. (Ed), M.Ed. 
(TASUED), MPH (Ibadan), 
Ph.D. (Ogun)  Visiting  
10 Dr. Adeyemi V. 
IGBOKOYI  Health Education  Senior Lecturer  B.Sc. (Ed) (Ogun), M.Ed. 
(Ibadan), Ph.D. (Ogun)  Visiting  
11 Dr. Adeyemi  T. 
OKESANYA  Exercise Physiology  Senior Lecturer  B.Sc. (Ed), M.Ed., Ph.D. 
(Lagos)  Visiting  
12 Dr. Michael A. 
ADEFUYE  Exercise Physiology  Senior Lecturer  B.Sc. (Ed), M.Ed., Ph.D. 
(Lagos)  Visiting  
13. Dr. E mmanuel 
A.  
ADENUGA  Health Education  Lecturer I  B.Sc . (Ed.) (Ogun)  
M. Ēd (Ogun)  
Ph. D. (Ogun)  Full-Time  
14. Dr. A dewale O. 
ADELEYE  Sociology     and 
Psychology of Sports  Lecturer I  B.Ed., M.Ed., Ph. D. 
(Ibadan)  Full-Time  
15. Dr. K atheleen  
C. 
IZUNWANNE  Sports Management & 
Administration  Lecturer II  B. Sc (Ed.) (Ogun)  
M. Sc Sports Mgt  (ABU)  
Ph. D (Ogun)  Full-Time  
16. Dr Atolani  B. 
DUYILEMI  Exercise Physiology  Lecturer II  B.Ed., M.Ed., Ph. D. 
(Ibadan)  Full-Time  
17. Dr. Kolade O. 
FAKOREDE  Health Education  Lecturer II  B.Ed., (EKSU)  
M.Ed., Ph. D. (Ibadan)  Full-Time  
8 
  
 
 
 
 
 
NON-TEACHING STAFF  
S/NO  NAME  SPECIALISATION  RANK  QUALIFICATIONs  STATUS  
1. Mrs. D.O. 
SOLUADE  Secretarial 
Administration  Senior Assistant 
Secretary  B. Sc. (Ed.),  Sec. Admin.  
Ogun  
 Full-Time  
2. Mrs. Oluwatoyin  
A. OLAITAN  General 
Administration  Higher Executive 
Officer  B.A. (Art), Ogun  Full-Time  
  18. Dr. 
Nwankaego E. 
BAKARE  Health Education  Lecturer II  B.Ed., M.Ed.,  
Ph. D. (Ibadan)  Full-Time  
19. Miss 
Omobolanle 
M. 
ADEKOYA  Health Education  Assistant 
Lecturer  B.Sc. Ed., M.Ed. (Ogun)  Full-Time  
20. Mr. Adekunle 
J. AKINLADE  Sports administration  Asst. Lecturer  B.Ed., M.Ed. (Ibadan)  Full time  
9 
 Programme Duration  
The Department runs basically a three -year or four -year degree programme, leading to the award 
of a B. Sc. Ed. Human Kinetics or B. Sc. Ed. Health Education depending on the point of entry.  
 
Admission Requirements:  
All students in the department should fulfi ll the Faculty and Department requirements for the 
awards of B.  Sc. Ed. degree  
1. 4-year Degree programme leading to:  
       B. Sc. Ed. Health Education.  
 
Candidates must possess a minimum of five credits at WASC/GCE O’ Level of the Senior 
Secondary School (SSS) level or Merit/Credit at Teachers Grade II Level at not more than two 
sittings in subjects which must include English Language,  Mathematics,  any one of:  Biology, 
Chemistry, Physics  and any two of the following:  
 
 
Account     Fine Art    History  
Social Studies     Agric. Science    French  
Literature in English    Statistics    Animal Husbandry   
General Science    Religious Studies   Chemistry  
Geography     Yoruba    Commerce  
Government     Physics    Economics  
Physical & Health Education   Health Education    
 
2. 3-year Degree programme leading to:  
 
 B. Sc. Ed.  Health Education  
  
Candidates must possess the following  
(i) Two G.C.E. ‘A” Level of HSC passes or two Merit passes at NCE level.  
(ii) Possess NCE in Physical and  Health Education either as double major or Physical 
Education or Health Education combined with any other teaching subject. A 
minimum of merit pass is required.  
(iii) Possess the Olabisi Onabanjo University or other recognized University Diploma 
and a minimum r equired “O” Level papers and at least Merit or Lower Credit pass 
in the Diploma Examination.  
(iv) In addition to (i) or (ii) or (iii) above, Credit or Merit in English  Language , 
Mathematics, any one of: Chemistry, Biology, Physics  and any other two subjects 
from the above at ‘O’ Level, Teachers’ Grade II or Merit in General English at 
NCE  or General paper at HSC is acceptable.  
 
Please note  that Physical and Health Education at Teachers’ Grade II level will not be 
regarded as two subjects.  
 
3. Special consideration will be given to sportsmen and women of national and international 
repute as appropriate.  
10 
 4. In all categories of admission into the Health Education  programme, motor 
 educability test may be conducted for prospective candidates.  
 
UNIVERSITY TEACHING AND EXAMINATION REGULATIONS  
 The Harmattan and Rain Semesters teaching Time -Table shall be made av ailable to 
students at the beginning of each Semester to guide them in selecting courses, particularly 
electives, for which they can register. The Harmattan and Rain Semester Examinations 
Time -Tables, however, shall be made available to students at least t wo weeks before the 
commencement of each examination.  
DATES OF UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS  
 University examinations shall be held at the end of each Semester for all courses offered 
in that Semester.  
QUESTION PAPERS  
(a)  Question papers for the Harmattan and R ain Semester Examinations shall be set at the 
appropriate time. All question papers shall be signed by the Chief Examiner /Co -ordinator 
and at least one of the University Examiners concerned, and where there is an External 
Examiner, by the External Examine r as well.  
Examiners must make available to the Head of Department exact sources of any copyrighted 
materials used in the question papers set by them.  
The question papers must be written legibly or typed personally by the examiner himself on 
the prescribed forms.  
(d) The course number and titles of paper in each subject must conform with the numbers and 
titles in the University/Faculty Hand book.  
(e) The Chief Examiner in each subject shall be responsible for the correctness of the question 
paper. All corrected proofs must be signed by the Chief Examiner or one of the University 
Examiners.  
(f) Maps, drawings, photographs, sketches and any other materials needed for reproduction in 
question papers must be sent in, in a form which can be reproduced without modification 
and must be submitted along with the question papers.  
(g) All Examiners are required to strictly preserve the secrecy of question p apers at all stage 
until after the examination. The contents of question paper must not be disclosed to any 
person other than fellow examiners in the same subject or an official of the University 
specially appointed to deal with question papers.  
(h) The Ch ief Examiner shall arrange for delivery of marked answer scripts to External 
Examiners where applicable. On no condition should the scripts be forwarded by post or 
sent abroad.  
11 
 (i) The authorized scheme for University Examination is that approved by the Se nate and it is 
the duty of the Course Examiner to ensure that this Scheme is strictly adhered to.  
 
(j) On the completion of the examinations, answer scripts shall be retained by the Head of 
Department for at least five years after the date of Examination a fter which they may be 
destroyed.  
REGISTRATION FOR UNIVERSITY EXAMNATIONS  
 A candidate for a University examination shall register for such examination in the 
prescribed entry registration form. The completed registration must be lodged with the 
faculty of ficer of the faculty to which the student belongs not latter than the closing date 
prescribed for the registration for such courses.  
            Any candidate who fails to register for examination at the appropriate time as prescribed 
by the Senate shall not be allowed to take any examination in such courses. Any 
examination taken without registration shall be null and void.  
(i) Candidates must present themselves at such University examination for which they have 
registered. Candidates who fail to do so fo r reasons other than illness or accident shall be 
deemed to have failed that examination. Mi sreading of the Time -Table shall not be 
accepted as satisfactory explanation for absence.  
(ii) As a general rule, no special examination shall be set for any candid ate who fails or is 
unable to complete any examination, but such examination shall be taken at the next 
available opportunity which may be the following year. The general rule notwithstanding, 
each case shall be considered on its merit.  
(iii) Any candidate  who on account of illness is absent from a university examination may be 
permitted to present himself for such examination at a future date provided that:  
(a) A full -time student in the University shall report any case of illness to the University Health 
Centre at all times.  
(b) When a student falls ill during examinations, he should first and foremost report to the 
Director, University Health Services before attending any hospital outside the University.  
(c) When a student falls ill befo re examination, he shall be under an  obligation to send a 
medical report counter signed by the Director, Health Services within one week of such 
illness. Any time outside this period shall be considered on its own merit.  
(d) A candidate who cannot register  for courses due to an illness must ensure that a medical 
report on his or her illness is forwarded by him/her or his/ her parents/ sponsor to reach the 
Dean of the Faculty not later than two weeks after the end of the normal registration period 
as schedul ed in the University Calendar. The Dean will thereafter determine the 
authenticity of the claim of such student who must have submitted an authenticated copy 
of the medical report from the Director of Health Services.  
12 
 GUIDELINES FOR CANDIDATES’ UNIVERSITY  EXAMINATIONS  
(i) A candidate shall not be allowed during an examination to communicate by work or 
otherwise with any other candidate, nor shall he/she leave his/her place except with the 
consent of an invigilator.  
 Should a candidate act in such a way as to disturb or inconvenient other candidates, he/she 
shall be warned and if he/she persists, he may, at the discretion of the invigilator, be 
excluded from the Examination room. Such an action by the Invigilator must also be 
reported to the Dean and the Vic e-Chancellor.  
(ii) It shall be an examination offence for any student, staff or any person whatsoever to 
impersonate a candidate in any University examination. Any student or staff of the 
University found guilty under this regulation shall be subject to di sciplinary action by the 
appropriate authority of the University.  
(iii) It shall be an examination offence for any candidate to take into an examination room or 
have in his/her possession during an examination any book or paper or printer or written 
docume nts, whether relevant to the examination or not, unless specifically authorized to do 
so, an invigilator has authority to confiscate such documents.  
(iv) A candidate shall not remove from an examination room any paper, used or unused, except 
the question p aper and such book and papers, if any, as he/she is authorized to take into the 
examination room.  
(v) Candidate shall comply with all ‘instruction to candidates’ set out on an examination 
answer book or other examination materials supplied to them. They sh all also comply with 
directive given to them by an invigilator.  
(vi) Candidates shall not write on any paper other than the examination answer books. All rough 
work must be done in the answer books and crossed out neatly. Supplementary answer 
books, ever, if they contain only rough work, must be tied inside the main answer books.  
(vii)  When leaving the examination room, a candidate shall not leave his written work on the 
desk but he shall hand it over to an invigilator.  
 Candidates are responsible for the proper return of their written work.  
(viii)  Smoking shall not be permitted in examination rooms during examination sessions.  
(ix) Any candidate or staff who attempts in any way to unlawfully have or give a pre -knowledge 
of an examinatio n question or to influence the marking of scripts or the award of marks by 
the University or External Examiner shall be subjected to disciplinary action by the 
appropriate authority of the University.  
 
  
13 
 EXAMINATION OFFENCES  
(i) If any candidate is suspected  of cheating, receiving assistance or assisting other candidates 
or infringing on any other examination regulation, a written report of the circumstances 
shall be submitted by the invigilator to the Vice -Chancellor through the Dean within 24 
hours of the e xamination session. The candidate shall be allowed to continue with the 
examination.  
(ii) Any candidate suspected under Regulation (i) above shall be required to submit to the 
invigilator a written report immediately after the paper. Failure to make a repo rt shall be 
regarded as a breach of discipline.  
APPOINTMENT OF UNIVERSITY EXAMINERS  
(a)  The Chief Examiners:  
(i) Shall be responsible for collection, collation and harmonization of all the segments of a 
Paper/or a Course Examination.  
(ii) Shall ensure tha t all questions are coordinated and enough copies produced for each course.  
(iii) He shall arrange for the marking and presentation of the results to Faculty Board and 
ultimately to Senate in good time.  
(b) Other University Examiners:  
(i) All Examiners are  to adhere to the time -table for the submission of questions. Draft 
examination questions are to be submitted to Head of Departments by Examiners eight (8) 
weeks before the beginning of the examination. Draft examination questions together with 
model answe rs and marking scheme should be submitted to the Head of Department. Heads 
of Department will not accept draft examination questions without model answers and a 
marking scheme.  
(iii) Examiners shall proof -read their questions till all corrections have been  made, so that 
corrections will not be made in the examination room. A report on corrections made in the 
examination room shall be made by the Senior Invigilator to the Examiners’ Head of 
Department.  
(iv) Examiners shall be present during the first half of  the Examination and should be available 
throughout the examination. Examiners should therefore, consult the final time -table for 
the information on place and time for their examinations.  
(v) Examiners shall collect their scripts from the Head of Departmen t. 
(vi) The Examiner or his nominee shall sign for any scripts collected from the Head of 
Department.  
14 
 (vii)  Examiners shall adhere to the time -table for the submission of examination grades and 
attendance at Examiners’ Board meeting. Examiners are to submi t their examination grades 
to the Head of Department not later than two (2) weeks after the paper has been taken.  
(viii)  Immediately after the closing dates for submission of questions and grades, the Head of 
Department will submit a report on a prescribed  format to the Vice -Chancellor on questions 
and grades submitted or not submitted.  
(c) Duties of Faculty/Department Examination Officers/Sub -Dean:  
(i)  Faculty Examination Officers should be responsible for ensuring that all arrangements for 
the University examinations in the Faculty are made.  
(ii) They shall be responsible for the preparation of Faculty/Examination Time -Table, 
allocation of Examination r ooms, and assignment of Invigilator.  
(iii) They shall be responsible for the collection of draft examination questions from Heads of 
Departments.  
(iv) They shall provide assistance in the processing of examination results (calculation of 
G.P.A)  
(v) They shall provide assistance in the preparation of examination results for submission to 
the Faculty Examiners Board.  
(d) Duties of Examination Attendants:  
(i) To report at once to the Invigilator any unseemly behaviour of any candidate.  
(ii) To accompany  candidates leaving examination room under permission, so as to avoid 
cheating.  
(iii) To run errands on the instruction of the examination Supervisor or Invigilator.  
(iv) To perform such other duties as may be assigned from the time to time by the Chief 
Invigilator or any other Senior Examinations Officer. Under no circumstance should an 
attendant aid and abet a candidate to cheat during the examinations.  
No person who has been involved in teaching a particula during an academic session shall 
be appointed a s External Examiner for the session.  
APPOINTMENT AND FUNCTIONS OF EXTERNAL EXAM INER.  
One external examiner from a University of repute shall participate in the conduct of the final year 
examinations of each degree programme and the determination of the re sults in accordance with 
the general regulations relating to the duties of the external examiner.  
 
 
15 
 FUNCTIONS OF EXTERNAL EXAMINER  
It shall be the duty of the External Examiners, where applicable, to assist in the conduct of the 
examinations for which they  have been appointed and in particular:  
 
(i) To scrutinize draft question papers and to satisfy themselves that the question papers are 
appropriate having regard to the approved syllabus for the course being examined and the 
level of the examination; and to recommend such alterations or modifications to the papers 
as they may think desirable. All question papers must be signed by the External Examiner;  
(ii) To mark or revise the marking of scripts in consultation with the Chief Examiner in  the 
subject;  
(iii) To assess practical or oral tests in consultation with the Chief Examiner in the subject;  
(iv) To participate in the determination of results and to adjudicate in cases of disagreement 
among university examiners in consultation with the  Chief Examiner;  
(v) To submit a report to the Vice -Chancellor on the completion of each examination in the 
subject with particular reference to the following points:  
(a)  The general standard of the Examination and performance of the candidates;  
(b) The s tandard of making by the University Examiners;  
(c) A critical appraisal of the conduct of the Examination, with suggestions for improvement 
on future occasions.  
RENUMERATION FOR EXTERNAL EXAMINERS: This is determined by the university.  
 (a) BOARD OF EXAMINERS  
 The Board of Examiners of the Faculty shall be constituted as follows.  
 The Dean of the Faculty as Chairman.  
 The Heads of Departments and all other University approved Examiners in the Faculty.  
 Where applicable, the relevant External Examiners . 
 The functions of the Board of Examiners of Faculty shall be:  
(i) To consider and ratify the marks, and in final examinations, the classifications 
recommended by the Departmental Board of Examiners in respect of graduating 
students;  
(ii) To make recommen dations to the Faculty Board for the consideration of all 
Semester Examination Results and the award of degree, diplomas and certificates;  
16 
 (iii) To consider all cases of absence or withdrawal from examinations and to make 
recommendations to the Faculty Board;  
(iv) To make recommendations to the Faculty Board for the award of distinctions and 
prizes.  
 
(b) The Department Board of Examination shall be constituted as follows:  
 The Chief Examiner/Head of Department (Chairman)  
 The External Examiner(s)  where applicable  
 All the University Examiners in each paper.  
 The functions of the Department Board of Examiners shall be:  
(i) The moderation of all examination questions;  
(ii) To consider the marks allotted to candidate for individual course;  
(iii) To m ake recommendation to the Faculty Board of Examiners.  
PATTERN OF EXAMINATION  
            (i) Each course shall be examined at the end of the semester. The Exanimation shall 
be conducted as prescribed by Senate.  
 (ii) Each course will normally be examined b y a theory paper of 1 -3 hours in addition 
to which there may be a practical and/or an oral examination.  
INTER -UNIVERSITY TRANSFER PROCEDURE/RE  QUIREMENTS  
Students who may wish to transfer from any recognized University into dry of the 
Departments in the Social sciences must have followed all the university guidelines and 
fulfilled all approved requirements for entry into that department. Specifically, such a 
candidate must not have a CGPA that is less than 2.0 and the admittability of the candidate 
shall be considered and approved by Faculty Board or by the Dean of the Faculty on behalf 
of the Faculty Board.  
 
GENERAL REGULATIONS GOVERNING CERTIFICATES AND FIRST DEGREES 
OF THE UNIVERSITY  
 
1. A programme of study shall be provided leading to a Bachelor’s degree to be denoted by 
the letters B.  Sc. Ed.  (or such other abbreviations as the Senate may from time to ti me 
approve) which may be awarded with honours or as a Pass degree.  
 
17 
 2. Instruction shall be by courses and students will be required to take approved combinations 
of courses as approved by Senate, on the recommendation of the Board, of the appropriate 
Facu lty, may from time to time be determined.  
 
3. Courses shall be evaluated in terms of course units. A course unit is defined as one lecture/ 
tutorial contact per week, or one three -hour laboratory or practical class per week 
throughout a semester, or an equ ivalent amount of other assigned study or practical 
experience or any combination of these.  
 
4. Courses shall be numbered in levels thus: 101 -199, 201 - 299, 301 - 399 and 401 -499,501 -
599,601 -699 and so forth corresponding to 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 and 600  levels 
respectively. Course numbers shall be prefixed by a three -character programme subject 
code e.g. ENG101, ECO202 or MAT304, HKE101 or EHE 403 or EHE101  
 
5. Students admitted into the university however, through Direct Entry programmeare to be 
credited  for their higher entry qualifications through specific regulations of their 
Colleges/Faculties.  
 
6.  REGISTRATION FOR COURSES  
Every student is expected to register for all courses he/she intends to pursue in a Semester. 
Following payment of the designated  fees through the University Portal System by (POS). 
Such courses shall be lodged in the prescribed registration entry forms and shall be lodged 
with the Faculty Officer. Registration for courses is not deemed complete until a student 
has personally handed  over all the completed registration forms to the Faculty Officer who 
shall duly acknowledge receipt, Failure to complete registration within the prescribed 
period without reasonable excuse shall attract a penalty of Nl00.00 per day for a maximum 
period of  two weeks of lateness or any amount that may be decided by Senate from time to 
time, after which the student will not be allowed to register.  
 
7. CHANGE OF COLLEGE/FACULTY/DEPARTMENT AND PROCEDURE FOR 
ADDING OR DELETING COURSES BY STUDENTS  
 
Students who may wish to change any of their registered courses may do so upon 
completing the form designed for the purpose. The time -limit within which students shall 
be allowed to either delete or add new courses to their list of registered courses shall  be 
four weeks from the commencement of the semester. Students who wish to change 
Department within the same Faculty shall be required to fulfill all approved requirements 
and guidelines for entry into that Department.  
 
(a) The change shall be allowed only  subject to vacancies in the  receiving Faculty.  
 
(b) In the case of transfer to Law, the applicant shall:  
 
18 
 (i) Initially possess a credit level pass in English Language, Literature in English 
and in three other subjects in the GCE /WASC passed at not more than two  
sittings. At least a pass in Mathematics is also compulsory,  
 
(ii) Pass (i.e. obtain 40% mark) in all the courses registered for in his/her 
department at the 100-level  degree programme in the, session he/she is seeking 
transfer, and  
 
(iii) Have an average of not less than 50% in the year in which he is seeking transfer.  
 
(c) In the case of transfer to the College of Health Sciences, a student who wishes to seek 
transfer to the College must in addition to the possession of the basic entry qualification 
secure an av erage of 50% in each of Chemistry, Physics and Biology in the Session in 
which he/she is seeking transfer.  
 
8. SANCTIONS FOR NON -REGISTRATION FOR COURSES AND RELATED ISSUES  
 
(i)   A student who abandons his/her studies for a Semester  without approved Leav e of Absence 
shall have his/her studentship suspended. Such a student shall have to apply to Senate for re -
admission. If re -admission is approved, the student shall be asked to settle in full the fees for 
the Semester missed.  
 
(ii) A student who absents himself/herself for two consecutive semesters without just cause shall 
automatically forfeit his/her studentship.  
 
(iii) Any student who fails to register for courses by the final deadline prescribed by Senate in the 
University Calendar shall not b e allowed to take any examination in such courses.  
 
(iv) Any student who registers for courses but fails to register for examinations for no just cause 
shall be scored 0% in those courses for which he/she registered.  
 
(v)  For a candidate to qualify to sit for or write an examination in a course, he/she must have 
attained at least seventy percent (70%) attendance at lectures, tutorials and practicals . 
 
9. GENERAL STUDIES PROGRAMME  
 In addition to the courses specified above,  students are expected to take GNS 001 and 002 
plus other prescribed general courses  
 
 
  
19 
 10.   COURSE UNIT SYSTEM TERMINOLOGIES  
 The following standard terminologies shall be used for the different categories of courses:  
 
(a)  Compulsory: Courses specified b y a Department, Faculty or the University which a student 
must take and pass:  
 
(b) Required: Courses specified by a department  which students must take. The minimum 
standard to be attained by  students offering such courses is 30%.  
 
(c) Electives: Courses s pecified by a department  from which a student can take in order to 
make up the required additional  units for the award of the degree.  
 
(d) Pre-requisite: A course whose knowledge is essential prior to taking another specified 
course;  
 
(e) Concurrent: Speci fied courses at the same level which must be taken within the same 
Semester.  
 
11. Appropriate prerequisites and/or concurrent requirement may be prescribed for courses. A 
prerequisite requirement is fulfilled by completing and passing the prerequisite; except that 
a student who fails a course but obtains at least a specified minimum standard in it shall be 
deemed to possess the course for prerequisite purposes but will not be credited with any 
units in it. A concurrent requirement will be s atisfied if the student has either taken the 
course on a previous occasion or registered for the course within the same Semester.  
 
12.  All courses taught during each Semester shall normally be examined at the end of that 
Semester, and candidates will be c redited with the number of course units assigned to the 
Course for which they have passed the examinations.  
 
13. All courses shall be examined by Continuous Assessment through assignments and/or tests. 
The marks scored through such continuous assessments s hall not constitute more than 30% 
of the total marks for the course.  
 
14. In each semester, to be qualified for full time studentship, a student shall register for 
courses totaling not less than 12 units. No student shall however register for courses 
totaling more than 27 units per semester. However, in exceptional  cases and with the 
approval of the Provost/Dean of the College/Faculty, a student may be allowed to register 
for courses totaling not more than 27 units.  
 
15. A student who fails to obtain 10 un its at the end of the first year, 20 units by the end of the 
second year, 30 units by the end of the third year and 40 units by the end of the fourth year 
respectively shall be required to withdraw from the University  
 
16. A student authorized to transfer from Faculty or Department to another shall be credited 
with those units passed that are within the curriculum of the new Department or Faculty.  
20 
  
17.  A student shall not normally be permitted to qualify for a degree until he has completed a 
prescribed per iod of study.  
 
(a)  The normal period for a  Honours Degree shall be eight semesters in the Faculties 
 of Arts, Science, Social and Management Sciences, and Education, ten Semesters 
 in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Faculties of Law and Pharmacy,  twelve 
 semesters for the College of Medicine  and such numbers of semesters as 
 may be prescribed for other programmes in Colleges/Faculties.  
 
(b)  The number of course units for the award of a degree shall be as approved by Senate 
 on the recommendation  of the College/Faculty Board.  
 
(c)   The minimum honours requirements for each degree programme shall be 
 prescribed by Senate on the recommendation of the Board of the appropriate 
 College/Faculty.  
 
(d)  For the award of honours in a specific programme, additional and/or alternative 
 requirements may be prescribed by Senate on the recommendation of the Board of 
 the appropriate College/Faculty.  
 
18 (a)  A student who has taken more than two academic years in excess of the approved 
 minimum period of study to complete a degree programme shall not normally be 
 eligible for a  Honours classification.  
 
(b)  A student who has spent up to six (6) semesters in excess of the approved minimum 
 period and has failed to complete a degree programme shall have his/her 
 studentship determined.  
 
19. The permission of the Senate must be obtained in all cases of considera tion for a Pass 
Degree of anyone who has spent more than four Semesters in excess of the number 
approved in clause 17 (a) above  
 
20 Degrees shall be classified as First Class Honours, Second Class Honours (Upper or Lower 
Division),   Third Class Honours and  Pass.  
 
21    (i) The Grade Point Average System shall be used for the determination of the class mark and 
the class of Degree.  
 
       (ii) In order to obtain the Grade Point Average of a candidate, the appropriate index (Grade 
Point) assigned to each ran ge of numerical mark is multiplied by the course unit and the 
product is added up for all courses registered for total is divided by the total numbers of 
unit registered for in the programme.  
21 
 The final aggregate for a course shall be a whole number;  Letter  grades and grade points 
shall be awarded on the basis of the final aggregate marks as follows:  
 
Letter ( Grade)   Grade Point                     Marks  
 
        A     5   70 - 100 
        B     4   60 -   69 
        C     3   50 -   59 
        D     2   45 -   49 
        E     1   40 -   44 
        F     0   0 -   39 
 
 
FIRST DEGREE  
To qualify for a degree, a candidate must have passed all the specified compulsory courses 
and in addition obtained the minimum number of units prescribed by each College/Facul ty. The 
class of degree shall be based on the final Cumulative Grade Point Average as follows:  
4.50   and above           -   First Class  
3.50   -   4.49                -   Second Class (Hons.) Upper Division  
2.40   -   3.49                -   Second Class  (Hons.) Lower Division  
1.50   -   2.39                -   Third Class (Hons.)  
1.00   -   1.49                -   Pass 
Notification of Examination results shall be issued to students and their parents or sponsors at the 
end of each session.  
  
22 
 UNIVERSITY TE ACHING AND EXAMINATION REGULATIONS  
(i) The Harmattan and Rain Semesters Teaching Time -Table shall be made available to students at the 
beginning of each Semester to guide them in selecting courses, particularly electives, for which 
they can register. The H armattan and Rain Semester examinations' Time -Tables, however, shall be 
made available to students at least two weeks before the commencement of each examination.  
 
(ii) The Senate shall have control and general direction of all university examinations and shall exercise 
such powers as may be necessary to discharge these functions.  
  
(iii) Senate shall be responsible for the details of organization and the administrative arrangements for 
university  examinations. It shall set up a sub -committee on Examinations to assist it in the 
performance of these functions. The Registrar or his nominee shall be the secretary to the sub -
committee.  
 
(iv) Subject to the overriding control of Senate exercised throug h the Senate Committee on 
Examinations as in (iii) above, University examinations shall be conducted by Departmental Boards 
of Examiners appointed by Senate on the recommendations of the appropriate College/Faculty 
Boards.  
 
(v) Senate shall determine whet her any matter is one of the conducts of examinations or of the 
organization and arrangement for examinations.  
GUIDELINES FOR CANDIDATES AT UNIVERSITY EXAMINATIONS.  
A candidate shall not be allowed during an examination to communicate by word or otherwise with any 
other candidate nor shall -he/she leaves  his/her place except with the consent of an invigilator. Should a 
candidate act in such a way as to disturb or inconvenient other candidates, he/she shall be warned and if 
he/she persists, he may, at the dis cretion of the invigilator, be excluded from the Examination Room. Such 
an action by invigilator must also be reported to the Vice - Chancellor.  
It shall be an examination offence for any student, staff or any person whatsoever to impersonate a candidate 
in any university examination. Any student or staff of the University found guilty under this regulation shall 
be subject to disciplinary action by the appropriate authority of the University.  
It shall be an examination offence for any candidate to take in to an examination room or have in his/her 
possession during an examination any book or paper or printed or written documents, whether relevant to 
the examination or not, unless specifically authorized to do so. An invigilator has authority to confiscate 
such documents.  
A candidate shall not remove from an examination room any paper, used or unused, except the Question 
paper and such book and papers, if any, as he/she is authorized to take into the examination room.  
Candidates shall comply with all "directi on to Candidates" set out on an examination answer book or other 
examination materials supplied to them. They shall also comply with direction given to them by invigilator,  
Candidates shall not write on any paper other than the examination answer 'books. All rough work must be 
done in the answer books and crossed out neatly. Supplementary answer books, even if they contain only 
rough work must be tied inside the main answer books.  
When leaving the examination room, a candidate shall not leave his written work on the desk but he shall 
hand it over to an invigilator, Candidates are responsible for the proper return of their written work.  
Smoking shall not be permitted in examination rooms during examination sessions.  
23 
 Any candidate or staff who attempts in any way to unlawfully have or give a pre -knowledge of an 
examination question or to 'influence the marking of scripts or the award of marks by the University or 
External Examiner shall be subject to disciplinary action by the appropriate authority of the U niversity.  
EXAMINATIONS OFFENCES  
If any candidate is suspected of cheating, receiving assistance or assisting other candidates or of infringing 
any other examination regulation, a written report of the circumstances shall be submitted by the invigilator 
to the Vice -Chancellor within 24 hours of the examination session. The candidate concerned shall be 
allowed to continue with the examination.  
Any candidate suspected under regulation (46) shall be required to submit to the invigilation a written report 
imme diately after the paper. Failure to make a report shall be regarded as a breach of discipline.  
 
(a) Where the Vice -Chancellor is satisfied that any candidate has committed an examination offence and 
the Vice -Chancellor may;  
(i)  Authorize the Registrar to give public notice of the fact that such an offence has been committed  
by that candidate or to give notice to that candidate;  
 
OR  
(ii) Remove the name of the candidate from any pass list;  
OR  
(iii) Suspend the candidate from any University Examin ation for such period as he may decide;  
OR  
(iv) Order that the candidate be suspended from any University Examination for such period as he may 
decide;  
OR  
(v) Order that the candidate be dismissed from the University;  
OR  
(vi)  Act in all or any of these ways; and  
 
(vii) Report any action taken to the Senate and Council.  
Where the Vice -Chancellor has reason to believe that the nature of any question or the content of any paper 
may have become known before the date and time of t he Examination to any persons other than the 
examiners of the paper, the Board of Examiners and any official of the paper, he may order the suspension 
of the examination or the cancellation of the paper or setting of a new paper and shall report the matter  to 
the senate. The Vice -chancellor shall take any disciplinary measure against any student or students involved 
as he may deem appropriate.  
 
If in the opinion of an invigilator, circumstances arise which render the examination unfair, to any 
candidate, h e must report the matter to the Vice -Chancellor within 24 hours after the examination.  
24 
 Where a matter is reported to the Vice -Chancellor under Regulations 49 and 50, he may take such other 
actions as he thinks fit for the purpose of this regulation. If he  directs that another examination be held, that 
Examination shall be the examination for the purpose of the Regulation.  
 
Any candidate or member of the academic staff may complain to the Vice -Chancellor that an examination 
has been improperly conducted. T he Vice -Chancellor shall investigate the complaint and report the result 
of his investigation to the senate which shall take such actions as it may deem appropriate, including 
withholding of result or deprivation of the award of degree, diploma, etc.  
EXAM INATION ACCOMMODATION  
All University examinations shall be held in rooms approved by the Registrar as suitable for the purpose. 
The rooms shall be prepared as follows:  
(i) As much' as possible, the Registrar shall endeavor to accommodate all candidates wh o are to 'write 
papers in the same course in one room.  
(ii) Where all candidates for the same course cannot be seated in one room, and are likely to be split 
into different rooms, the Dean of the Faculty must be informed in good time, to make arrangement 
for a sufficient number of invigilators.  
(iii) Sitting arrangement shall be standardized and specific distance maintained between one candidate 
and the other to prevent cheating. The Registrar shall supply to the invigilator at each examination 
room the f ollowing materials: Answer books and other approved writing material, e.g. drawing 
paper, square ruled paper and graph  
 
Dressing Code  
a. All students must wear dresses that shall cover their chest and back.  Any student found violating 
this bye -law shall;  
As first offender shall be given serious warning;  When caught on the same offence shall face One Semester 
Suspension and the parent shall also be invited.  
b. All trousers to be used must touch the shoe.  Any trouser(s) besides this, put on, would make the 
student to face one Semester suspension;  
c. Any male student that puts on earring and displays  a strange hair -style shall face One Semester 
Suspension while the parents shall also be invited to the University.  
d. Transparent dresses must not be put on in the Univer sity.  Any student found guilty of such an 
offence shall face One Semester Suspension while the parent shall be invited to school.  
RULES GUIDING PRACTICAL EXAMINATION CONDUCT IN THE DEPARTMENT  
Theory : General University and Faculty peculiar rules shall apply.  
Practical : The following rules shall apply:  
1. Students shall appear in the traditional white T -shirts, blue shorts/blue track down with 
white socks and white sports canvass.  
2. Students must arrive 30 minutes before the practical examination,  fully dressed with their 
appropriate sports equipment.  
25 
 REGULATIONS GOVERNING COURSES LEADING TO  B. Sc. Ed. HEALTH 
EDUCATION  
 
1. The programme of study leading to the award of first degree in Health Education, which 
may be awarded with Honours or Pass de gree is as contained in the approved courses for 
the Department, Faculty of Education and other relevant areas of study.  
2. Four levels of courses shall be offered as follows  with other faculty and university courses : 
 
 100 Level Courses   (EHE 111 -OOU -EHE115 )  
 200 Level Courses   (EHE 211 – OOU -EHE 213) 
 300 Level Courses   (EHE 313 – OOU -EHE319 )  
 400 Level Courses   (EHE401 – OOU -EHE 418) 
 
NB.: 
Candidates admitted for the 3 -year degree programme shall enter the programme at the 200 
level  as direct entry student . 
 
 
 
  
26 
 HEALTH EDUCATION B.Sc. (ED) DEGREE 4- and 3 -YEAR  PROGRAMME  
CCMAS COURSE CONTENTS AND DESCRIPTION  
 
GENERAL EDUCATION COURSES  
 
HARMATTAN AND RAIN SEMESTER  
 
100 LEVEL  
COURSE CODE  COURSE TITLE  UNITS  STATUS  
General     
GST111   Communication in English   2 C 
GST112  Nigerian Peoples and Culture  2 C 
Core Course     
EDU101  Introduction to Teaching Profession  2 C 
OOU-EDU1 52 History and Philosophy of Education  2 C 
Specialization     
EHE111   Introduction to Health Education   2 C 
EHE113   Personal Health & Dental Education   2 C 
EHE114   Environmental Health   2 C 
EHE117  Human Growth and Development   2 C 
EHE120  Introduction to Community and Public Health   2 C 
BIO101   General Biology  2 C 
HKE106  Inclusive Physical Education and Sport  2 C 
HKE112  Introduction to Physical Education and Sport  2 C 
OOU-EHE104  Human Biology I  2 E 
OOU-EHE108  Nutrition and Health of School Children  2 E 
OOU-EHE109  Health Records Keeping in Schools and Health Facilities  2 E 
OOU-EHE115  Anthropology and Health Education  2 E 
 Total  32  
 
 
 
 
  
27 
 200 LEVEL  
COURSE CODE  COURSE TITLE  UNITS  STATUS  
General     
GST201  Philosophy, Logic and Human Existence  2 C 
ENT211  Entrepreneurship and Innovation  2 C 
GST212  Philosophy, Logic and Human Existence  2 C 
EDU201  Curriculum, Curriculum Delivery and Teaching Methods  2 C 
Core Course     
OOU-EDU 2 62 Educational Technology  2 C 
OOU-EDU 2 63 Sociology of Education  2 C 
OOU-EDU 2 65 Language and Communication in Teaching  2 C 
Specialization     
EHE211   Methods and Resources in Health Education   2 C 
EHE212   School Health Education Programme  2 C 
EHE213   Human Anatomy and Physiology    2 C 
EHE215   Family Life, Reproductive Health   & Population Education  2 C 
EHE218   Human Diseases & Health Protection   2 C 
EHE219   Health Education Practicum   2 C 
EHE220   Food and Human Nutrition    2 C 
EHE222   Emotional, Mental and Social Health   2 C 
OOU-EHE201  Emergency Health Care Education  2 E 
OOU-EHE20 3 Healthy Lifestyle Education  2 E 
OOU-EHE204  Human Biology II  2 E 
OOU-EHE20 5 Mass Media Health Care Education    
OOU-EHE206  Patient Health Education  2 E 
OOU-EHE208  Introduction to Health Promotion and Health Education Theories  2 E 
OOU-EHE210  Rural and Urban Health Education  2 E 
OOU-HKE213 Computer Application in Human Kinetics and Health Education  2 E 
 Total  46  
 
 
  
28 
 300 LEVEL  
COURSE CODE  COURSE TITLE  UNITS  STATUS  
General     
GST312   Peace and Conflict Resolution   2 C   
ENT312  Venture Creation    2 C   
Core Course     
EDU301  Teaching Practice  3 C 
EDU302  Research Methods, Measurement and Statistics  3 C 
OOU-EDU3 73 Educational Psychology Guidance and Counselling  2 C 
OOU-EDU3 74 Educational Management  2 C 
Specialization     
EHE313   Research Methods in Health Education   2 C 
EHE314   Substance Use and Abuse Prevention   2 C 
EHE315   Maternal, Infant & Child Health   2 C 
EHE317   Health Psychology and Counselling   2 C 
EHE320   First Aid, Accident Prevention and Safety Education  2 C 
EHE321   Application of Computer Skills & Informatics in Health Education   2         C 
EHE322   Life Skills & Skilled -Based Health Education   2        C 
EHE324   Epidemiology of Public Health & Human Biometrics   2        C 
OOU-EHE310  Essential Drug Education  2        E 
OOU-EHE311  Prevention and Management of Allergy and Prophylaxis in School   2       E 
OOU-EHE316  Health Education for Health Promotion in School and Community  2       E 
OOU-EHE318  Waste Management Education  2       E 
OOU-EHE319  Entrepreneurship in Health Education  2       E 
 Total  38  
 
 
 
 
  
29 
 400 LEVEL  
COURSE CODE  COURSE TITLE  STATUS  UNITS  
General     
EDU 400  Project  3 C 
EDU 401  Teaching Practice II  3 C 
OOU-EDU403 Educational Measurements, Tests, Research Methods, and 
Statistics II  2 C 
Specialization     
EHE 401   Contemporary National Health Programmes , Issues and 
Problems in Public Health   2 C 
EHE 402   Occupational and Industrial Health   2 C 
EHE 403   Health Economics & Consumerism   2 C 
EHE 404   Organisation , Planning and Evaluation of Health Education 
Programmes  2 C 
EHE 407   Seminar in Health Education   2 C 
EHE 408  Global Health, National Health Laws, Policies and Advocacy    2 C 
EHE 409   Curriculum Development & Innovation in Health Education   2 C 
EHE 410   Geriatrics & Death Education   2 C 
OOU-EHE405  Health Education Practicum II  2 C 
OOU-EHE411  Care of Special Senses in School and Community  2 E 
OOU-EHE416  Exercise, Fitness and Health  2 E 
OOU-EHE4I8  Social Marketing and Health  2 E 
 Total  32  
 
 
  
30 
 HEALTH EDUCATION B.Sc. (ED) DEGREE 4 -YEAR PROGRAMME  
COURSE CODES, TITLE AND DESCRIPTION  
 
HARMATTAN AND RAIN SEMESTER  
 
GENERAL COURSES  
CODE  COURSE TITLE  UNIT  STATUS  
EDU101  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Introduction to Teaching and Foundations of Education  
Teaching as a profession. Ethics of the teaching profession. 
Intellectual and practical competencies required by the teacher. 
Link between education and development. Educational 
development from ancient times to the present with particular 
reference to the  evolution of modern education in Nigeria. The 
National Policy on Education. Brief treatment of learning theories 
from the behaviourist, cognitive and socio -cultural perspectives. 
Child and adolescent development. Historical and current 
developments in phi losophy of education. Historical 
developments in sociology of education. Current developments in 
sociology of education.  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
GST 111  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Communication Skills in English  
Sound patterns in English Language (vowels and consonants, 
phonetics and phonology). English word classes (lexical and 
grammatical words, definitions, forms, functions, usages, 
collocations). Sentence in English (types: structural and 
functional, simple an d complex). Grammar and Usage (tense, 
mood, modality and concord, aspects of language use in everyday 
life). Logical and Critical Thinking and Reasoning Methods 
(Logic and Syllogism, Inductive and Deductive Argument and 
Reasoning Methods, Analogy, Generali sation and Explanations).  
Ethical considerations, Copyright Rules and Infringements. 
Writing Activities: (Pre -writing, Writing, Post writing, Editing 
and Proofreading; Brainstorming, outlining, Paragraphing, Types 
of writing, Summary, Essays, Letter, Curr iculum Vitae, Report 
writing and Note making.  
Mechanics of writing). Comprehension Strategies: (Reading and 
types of Reading, Comprehension Skills, 3RsQ). Information and 
Communication Technology in modern Language Learning. 
Language skills for effective communication. Major word 
formation processes. Writing and reading comprehension 
strategies. Logical and critical reasoning for meaningful 
presentations. Art of public speaking and listening. Report 
writing.  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
31 
 GST 112  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Nigerian Peoples and Culture  
Nigerian history, culture and art up to 1800 (Yoruba, Hausa and 
Igbo peoples and culture; peoples and culture of the ethnic 
minority groups). Nigeria under colonial rule (advent of colonial 
rule in Nigeria; Colonial administration of Nigeria). Evolution of  
Nigeria as a political unit (amalgamation of Nigeria in 1914; 
formation of political parties in Nigeria; Nationalist movement 
and struggle for independence). Nigeria and challenges of nation 
building (military intervention in Nigerian politics; Nigerian C ivil 
War). Concept of trade and economics of self reliance (indigenous 
trade and market system; indigenous apprenticeship system 
among Nigeria people; trade, skill acquisition and self -reliance). 
Social justices and national development (law definition and  
classification. Judiciary and fundamental rights. Individual, norms 
and values (basic Nigeria norms and values, patterns of citizenship 
acquisition; citizenship and civic responsibilities; indigenous 
languages, usage and development; negative attitudes an d 
conducts. Cultism, kidnapping and other related social vices). Re -
orientation, moral and national values (The 3R’s – 
Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Re -orientation; Reorientation 
Strategies: Operation Feed the Nation (OFN), Green Revolution, 
Austerity  Measures, War Against Indiscipline (WAI), War 
Against Indiscipline and Corruption (WAIC), Mass Mobilization 
for Self -Reliance, Social Justice and Economic Recovery 
(MAMSER), National Orientation Agency (NOA). Current socio -
political and cultural developme nts in Nigeria.  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
OOU -GES 
151 Modern Agriculture and Rural Development   
This course introduces students to contemporary agricultural 
practices and their role in promoting sustainable rural 
development. It explores modern farming technologies, 
agribusiness strategies, climate -smart agriculture, rural 
infrastructure, and community -based development approaches. 
Emphasis is placed on improving agricultural productivity, food 
security, and livelihoods while ensu ring environmental 
sustainability. Students will gain knowledge and skills to address 
challenges in rural communities and contribute to national and 
global agricultural development goals.  
 
 2 C 
32 
 OOU -EDU 
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  History and Philosophy of Education  
The evolution of Western Education in Greece. Athenian versus 
Spartan Education. Education in Ancient Rome.  Pioneers of 
Educational Thought. Traditional Education in Nigeria. Islamic 
Education in Nigeria. The Advent of Western Education in 
Niger ia. Education Ordinances, Commissions and Boards since 
1882. Free Education in the Western and Eastern Regions. Post -
independence Educational Development. The 1969 Curriculum 
Conference.  National Policy on Education (1st to 6th Edition). 
Universal   Prima ry Education. Universal Basic Education. 
History of Higher Education in Nigeria.  Philosophy and 
Education, Branches of Philosophy; Schools of Philosophy and 
their implications for Educational Practice. Knowledge, Values, 
Ethics and Education. Philosophica l Analysis of Educational 
Terms and Concepts. The National Policy on Education.  2 C 
ENT211  Entrepreneurship and Innovation : Concept of Entrepreneurship 
(Entrepreneurship,  Intrapreneurship/Corporate 
Entrepreneurship,).  Theories, rationale and relevance of 
entrepreneurship (Schumpeterian and other perspectives, Risk -
Taking, Necessity and opportunity -based entrepreneurship and 
Creative destruction). Characteristics of Entrepreneurs 
(Opportunity seeker, Risk taker, Natural and Nurtured, Problem 
solver and change agent, Innovator and creative thinker). 
Entrepreneurial thinking (Critical thinking, Reflective thinking, 
and Creative thinking). Innovation (Concept of innovation, 
Dimensions of innovation, Change and innovation, Knowledge 
and innovation).  Enterprise formation. Partnership and 
networking (Basics of Business Plan, Forms of business 
ownership, Business registration and Forming alliances and join 
ventures). Contemporary Entrepreneurship Issues (Knowledge, 
Skills and Technology, Intellectual pr operty, Virtual office, 
Networking). Entrepreneurship in Nigeria (Biography of 
inspirational Entrepreneurs, Youth and women entrepreneurship, 
Entrepreneurship support institutions, Youth enterprise networks 
and Environmental and cultural barriers to entrep reneurship). 
Basic principles of e -commerce.   2 C 
GST212  Philosophy, Logic and Human Existence : Scope of philosophy; 
notions, meanings, branches and problems of philosophy. Logic 
as an indispensable tool of philosophy. Elements of syllogism, 
symbolic logic — the first nine rules of inference. Informal 
fallacies, laws of thought, nature of arguments. Valid and invalid 
arguments, logic of form and logic of content — deduction, 
induction and inferences. Creative and critical thinking. Impact of 
philosophy on human existence. Philosophy and politics, 2 C 
33 
 philosophy and human conduct, philosophy and religion, 
philosophy and human values, philosophy and character molding.   
EDU201  Curriculum, Curriculum Delivery and Teaching Methods : 
Definition and types of curriculum. The curriculum development 
process. The Nigerian core curricula. Curriculum delivery. 
General teaching methods and strategies: lecture, class discussion, 
demonstration, problem -solving, cooperative learning and 
guided -discovery, concept mapping, met cognition, 
argumentation. Project -based learning, competency -based 
learning, cultu re-techno -contextual approach (CTCA). 
Developing the lesson plan/note. Assessment of learning. 
Resources for teaching, improvisation. General classroom 
management with special needs.  2 C 
OOU -
EDU262  Educational Technology  
Concept of Educational Technology. Techniques of instruction. 
Communication in education. Cybernetic System, and computer - 
driven technologies for instructions. Educational media - types. 
Design and production of educational media. Utilization, and 
evaluat ion of educational media and resources. Community 
resources - types. Guidelines for effective utilization of resources. 
Concept of programmed Instruction and learning. Principles of 
programmed instruction. Development of programmed materials. 
Systems approa ch to instruction. Instructional, Simulation, and 
games. Photography in education. Digital production of 
instructional photographs. Concept of Educational Resource 
Centre (ERC). Types and functions of ERC. PowerPoint 
Projector, classroom with interactive b oard, relevant textbooks, 
relevant journals, internet resources.  2 C 
OOU -
EDU263  Sociology of Education  
The Evolution and Assumptions of Sociology. Concept and 
Structure of Society. Society as a System of groups and 
institutions. Education as a Social Institution. Founding Fathers of 
Sociology of Education. Sociological Theories and Education. 
Education, Cul ture and Socialisation. Education and Social 
Change. The Classroom Interaction Systems. The Role of the 
School in the Learning of Norms. The Family, the School and 
Education. Education and other Social Institutions. Social 
Stratification and Education. Edu cation and Social Mobility. The 
School as a Social and Formal Organisation. Issues in 
Professionalisation of Teaching. Contemporary Social Problems 
and Education.      2 C 
OOU -
EDU265  Language and Communication in Teaching  
Language skills. Sub skills of listening. Subskills of speaking. 
Reading activities. Practical speaking drills. Guided writing.  
Brain drill to measure thinking capacity.  Practical demonstration 2 C 
34 
 through guided construction of verbal expressions. Practical  
demonstration through guided construction of non -verbal 
expressions.   Extensive reading and written forms.  The study of 
academic writing. Introduction to  grammar in language teaching . 
The teaching of synonyms. The teaching of antonyms. The 
teaching of homophones, homonyms, homographs .  Tenses. 
Reading skills with defects (to be avoided) like regression, 
mouthing, finger tracing head. Essays on   topical issues ranging 
from politics to religion, aviation, agriculture, carpentry, 
photography, science, theatre arts etc  
OOU -
EDU373  Educational Psychology and Guidance and Counselling  
Introduction to Educational Psychology: definition of educational 
psychology, theories of learning and development, individual 
differences, and diversity. The Role of Counselling in Education: 
the relationship between counselling and education, the goals of 
counselling in education, the counselling process in educational 
settings. Guidance and Counselling in Schools: the role of school 
counsellors , models of school counselling programs, counselling 
techniques and interventions, group counselling and peer 
counselling, consultation, and collaboration.  Career Counselling 
and Development: career counselling theories and models, career 
development stag es and tasks, career assessment and exploration, 
career decision -making and planning. Counselling and Special 
Education: understanding disabilities and special needs, the role 
of counsellors in special education, adaptations and 
accommodations, inclusive e ducation, and collaboration. Mental 
Health and Wellness in Education: mental health issues in 
education, promoting mental wellness and resilience, prevention 
and early intervention, crisis response and management. Research 
and Professional Development in E ducational Counselling: 
evidence -based practices and interventions, program evaluation 
and outcome measures, professional ethics, and standards, 
continuing education and lifelong learning.  2 C 
OOU -
EDU374  Educational Management  
School as a formal organization. Differences between school and 
other formal organizations. Basic Principles of Management. 
Applicability of Principles of Management in Managing 
Educational institutions. Concept of Leadership and 
Managements. Distinguishin g between Leadership and 
Managements. Theories of Leadership. Leadership styles concept 
and elements of systems management. Applicability of Systems 
Management to the organization and management of Educational 
Institutions. Basic principles and processes o f effective planning. 
Investment in education. Public and private partnerships in the 
Nigerian Education enterprises. Decision -making processes in the 2 E 
35 
 Educational System. Financing of Education in Nigeria. Sources 
of Educational Funding. Causes of Under Fi nding of Education in 
Nigeria. Budgeting in Education.  
EDU 301  Teaching Practice  I 
Definition and types of curriculum . Effective and responsive 
teaching practices and interactions are key for all learning in 
professional teacher preparation. The importance of teaching 
practice is to provide the students with an opportunity to apply 
their pedagogical knowledge and skills in practice. Therefore, the 
practical implementation of teaching and learning strategies in the 
classroom, as ap plied to the subject area, should be taught through 
micro -teaching before students embark on the exercise.  3 C 
GST 312  Peace and Conflict Resolution  
Concepts of Peace. Conflict and Security in a multi -ethnic nation. 
Types and theories of conflicts: Ethnic, Religious, Economic, 
Geo-political Conflicts; Structural Conflict Theory, Realist 
Theory of Conflict, Frustration -Aggression Conflict Theory. 
Root causes of Conflict and Violence in Africa: Indigene and 
settlers Phenomenon; Boundaries/bo arder disputes; Political 
disputes; Ethnic disputes and rivalries; Economic Inequalities; 
Social disputes; Nationalist Movements and Agitations; Selected 
Conflict Case Studies – Tiv-Junkun; ZangoKartaf, Chieftaincy 
and Land disputes. Peace Building, Manage ment of Conflicts and 
Security: Peace & Human Development. Approaches to Peace & 
Conflict Management --- (Religious, Government, Community 
Leaders and others). Elements of Peace Studies and Conflict 
Resolution: Conflict dynamics assessment Scales: Construc tive 
& Destructive. Justice and Legal framework: Concepts of Social 
Justice; The Nigeria Legal System. Insurgency and Terrorism. 
Peace Mediation and Peace Keeping. Peace & Security Council 
(International, National and Local levels) Agents of Conflict 
resol ution – Conventions, Treaties Community Policing: 
Evolution and Imperatives. Alternative Dispute Resolution, 
ADR. Dialogue b). Arbitration, c). Negotiation d). Collaboration. 
Roles of International Organizations in Conflict Resolution. (a).  
The United Nat ions, UN and its Conflict Resolution Organs. (b). 
the African Union & Peace Security Council (c). ECOWAS in 
Peace Keeping. Media and Traditional Institutions in Peace 
Building. Managing Post -Conflict Situations/Crisis: Refugees. 
Internally Displaced Person s, IDPs. The role of NGOs in Post -
Conflict Situations/Crisis  2 C 
ENT 312  Venture Creation  
Opportunity Identification (Sources of business opportunities in 
Nigeria, Environmental scanning, Demand and supply gap/unmet 
needs/market gaps/Market Research, Unutilised resources, Social 2 C 
36 
 and climate conditions and Technology adoption gap). New 
business development (business planning, market research). 
Entrepreneurial Finance (Venture capital, Equity finance, Micro 
finance, Personal savings, Small business investment 
organizations and Business plan competition). Entrepreneurial 
marketing and e -commerce (P rinciples of marketing, Customer 
Acquisition & Retention, B2B, C2C and B2C models of e -
commerce, First Mover Advantage, E -commerce business 
models and Successful E -Commerce Companies,). Small 
Business Management/Family Business: Leadership & 
Management. Ba sic book keeping, Nature of family business and 
Family Business Growth Model. Negotiation and Business  
communication (Strategy and tactics of negotiation/bargaining, 
Traditional and modern business communication methods). 
Opportunity Discovery Demonstrati ons (Business idea 
generation presentations. Business idea Contest, Brainstorming 
sessions, Idea pitching).  
Technological Solutions (The Concept of Market/Customer 
Solution, Customer Solution and Emerging Technologies, 
Business Applications of New Technol ogies - Artificial 
Intelligence (AI), Virtual/Mixed Reality (VR), Internet of Things 
(IoTs), Blockchain, Cloud Computing, Renewable Energy and 
others. Digital Business and E -Commerce Strategies).  
EDU302  Educational Measurements, Tests, Research Method s and 
Statistics  
Teaching as a profession. Types of educational measurements. 
Types of tests. Development of tests. Test blueprint, item 
analysis, reliability and validity of instruments. Domains of 
learning and taxonomy of cognitive outcomes. Meaning of 
research. Types of research with focus on descriptive and 
experimental research. The research process. Writing research   
proposal. Research designs. Theoretical/conceptual framework 
and review of literature.  
Sample and sampling techniques. Types of data, data gathering, 
data processing, data analysis and interpretation. Probability, 
critical values and error and their place in inferences. Ethical 
considerations. (political, economic religious and cultural) in 
research. Data analysis using IBM -SPSS. I n educational data 
analysis. Reporting educational research.  2 C 
EDU 400  
 
 
 
 
 Project  
Application of knowledge and skills acquired in research methods, 
statistics and evaluation in identifying and proffering solutions to 
educational problems. Working independently under the guidance 
of a Project Supervisor. Planning and execution of awell -3 
 
 
 
 
 C 
 
 
 
 
 
37 
  
  conceptualized research and presenting a written report on the 
study conducted.    
   
  
EDU 401  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Teaching Practice II  
Effective and responsive teaching practices and interactions are 
key for all learning in professional teacher preparation. The 
importance of teaching practice is to provide the students with an 
opportunity to apply their pedagogical knowledge and skills in 
practice. Therefore, the practical implementation of teaching and 
learning strategies in the classroom, as ap plied to the subject area 
should be taught through micro -teaching before students embark 
on the exercise.  3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
OOU -
EDU483  Test and Measurements, Research Methods, and Statistics II  
Sampling distribution. Standard error. Single mean confidence 
interval. z test. type 1 and type 2 errors. t distribution, degrees of 
freedom. Single mean t test. Dependent t test. Independent t test. 
Correlation and Prediction, Single -factor fixed -effects ANOVA 
model. Effect parameters, effect size and levels of inference. The 
2 × 2 factorial design. Parameters of two -factor ANOVA model. 
Sources of variation. Factorial effect contrasts (simple effect, 
main effect, interaction).  2 E 
 
  
38 
 CODE  COURSE TITLE  UNIT  STATUS  
EHE111  
 
 
 
 
 
  Introduction to Health Education  
This course provides students with a foundational understanding 
of the principles, concepts, and practices of health education. It 
examines the role of health education in promoting individual and 
community well -being, the settings in which it is practiced, and the 
competencies required for effective health education delivery.   2 
 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
 
  
EHE112  
 
 
 
 
  Family Life Education  
This course offers an in -depth examination of family life, 
reproductive health, and population education. It explores the 
dynamics of family systems, human reproductive health, and 
population issues, providing students with foundational 
knowledge and practical skills to promote well -being in these 
areas.  2 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
  
EHE113  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Personal Health & Dental Education  
Overview of personal health. The application of the principles of 
health to the promotion and maintenance of personal health. 
Personal health needs and problems of students, methods of 
determining health status. Issues in healthy living cutting across 
food, clothing, environment, water and bathing that promote 
personal health of school children. Exposure of students to causes 
of disease and prevention/control of disease. Concept of holistic 
health.  
Dental education and dental care. Dentistry, oral health/h ygiene. 
Behaviour guidance of the dental patient. Mechanical and 
chemotherapeutic home oral hygiene. Essence and importance of 
dental education.   2 C 
39 
 EHE114  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Environmental Health  
Concept of environment and types of environments. The role of 
environmental health in public and population health. 
Environmental health. Serene Environment, strategies for 
encouraging serene environment. Water supply and treatment. 
Waste management (gaseous waste, sewage and refuge 
manageme nt including dead body and industrial and medical 
waste management). Pest and vector control measures. 
Shelter/housing and site planning. Hygiene education. Food safety 
and hygiene. Protection from radiation. Pollution control. 
Environmental sustainability . Environmental emergencies. 
Environmental impact assessment and security. Hazards in the 
environment and the environmental factors that are connected to 
disease transmission. Field trips to public source  of water supply, 
waste disposal sites and other con trolling environmental agencies.  
 
 
  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
OOU -
EHE115  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Anthropology and Health Education  
The course entails the understanding of the experience and 
distribution of diseases, the prevention and treatment of sickness, 
healing processes, the social relation of therapy and the cultural 
importance using local examples to draw attention to culturally 
related health issues that will promote better understanding 
between cultural background of the people in relation to disease 
vulnerability and disease prevention in both the school and at the 
community levels.  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
EHE117  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Human Growth and Development  
Basic concepts of growth and development over a life span. 
Growth as an index of health, characteristics of normal growth. 
Factors affecting growth and development from conception to 
retirement (old age).  Life stages and human needs. Development 
milestone s via the lenses and perspective of developmental 
theorists. Current idea, research and processes affecting the 
developing person. The biological, social, emotional and 
intellectual aspects across the lifespan and individual application.  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
EHE120  
 
 
 
 
 Introduction to Community and Public Health  
This course provides an overview of the principles, practices, and 
policies of community and public health. Students will explore the 
factors that influence the health of populations, the role of public 
health systems, and the strategies used to promote an d protect 2 
 
 
 
  C 
 
 
 
  
40 
  
 
  community health. Topics include epidemiology, health 
disparities, health promotion, disease prevention, environmental 
health, and health policy.  
OOU -
EHE104  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Human Biology I  
 
This course introduces knowledge of basic human biology which 
introduces learners to how body develops from a single cell called 
zygote which results from the fusion of the ovum and the 
spermatozoon, and the follow -up cell division with the 
development of different structural and functional specifications.  2 
 
 
 
 
 
  E 
 
 
 
 
 
  
OOU -
EHE 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Nutrition and Health of School Children  
This course examines the scientific, policy and practical links 
between nutrition, health and educational outcomes of children. 
Macro - and micronutrient requirements for growth, cognition and 
immunity; burden of malnutrition in low - and middle -income 
conte xts; evidence -based school nutrition interventions - breakfast 
programmes, micronutrient fortification, school gardens, cash 
transfers and food -literacy curricula. Nutrition surveillance tools, 
school health policy frameworks, multi -sector collaboration, f ood-
safety standards, and strategies for engaging parents, vendors and 
local communities. Practical dietary -assessment and policy briefs. 
Design context -specific school nutrition plans that improve dietary 
diversity, reduce anaemia and parasitic infections , and enhance 
classroom concentration, ultimately contributing to national 
educational attainment and long -term economic development.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
OOU -
EHE 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 Health Record Keeping in Schools and Health Facilities  
The course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive 
understanding of the critical role health records play in both 
educational and healthcare settings. This course covers the 
fundamental concepts and practices involved in mana ging health 
records, ensuring that students develop the skills necessary to 
handle these records with the utmost accuracy, confidentiality, and 
legal compliance.   2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
41 
  
  
HKE106  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Inclusive Physical Education and Sport  
This course is designed to describe an approach that is essentially 
based on valuing diversity. The course will assist people with and 
without disabilities to learn together from the very beginning. It is 
the task of the education system to provide special  support and 
encouragement for individual learners by providing special 
resources and methods. Inclusive physical education encourages 
all children - with and without disabilities. It creates joint 
movement experiences without neglecting individual’s speci al 
needs.  2 C 
HKE112  
 
 
 
 
 
  Introduction to Physical Fitness Programming  
This course introduces the students to physical fitness through 
aerobics and graded exercises for optimal cardiovascular 
efficiency, toning of skeletal muscles and development of 
desirable motor skills and mental alertness. Exercises in the 
prevention of hypokinetic diseases.  2 C 
   
42 
 CODE  COURSE TITLE  UNIT  STATUS  
EHE211  Methods and Resources in Health Education  
This course explores the role of mass media in healthcare 
education, examining the influence of various media 
channels —television, radio, social media, and print —on 
public health awareness, behavior, and policy. It equips 
students with the knowledge and sk ills to leverage mass 
media for effective healthcare education and public health 
advocacy. Students will learn strategies for designing, 
producing, and evaluating healthcare communication 
campaigns, with a focus on effectively engaging diverse 
populations and addressing health disparities. Through 
case studies, students will analyze successful health 
communication campaigns and assess ethical 
considerations in mass media healthcare education.  2 C  
EHE212  School Health Education Programme  
This course explores the principles, components, and 
implementation of school health education programs. It 
focuses on promoting physical, mental, and social well -
being among students th rough structured health education 
initiatives. The course covers health policies, school -
based interventions, and strategies for preventing diseases 
and promoting healthy behaviors among school -aged 
children and adolescents.2 C  
EHE213  Human Anatomy and Physiology  
Organisation of the body, Anatomical terms, the skeleton -
Axial and Appendicular, cavities of the body - cranial, 
thoracic, abdominal and pelvic, disorders of cells and 
tissues -Neoplasms/tumor. Communication -composition 
of blood cardio vascular system shock thrombosis and 
embolism  2 C  
EHE215  Family Life, Reproductive Health & Population 
Education  
This course offers an in -depth examination of family life, 
reproductive health, and population education. It explores 
the dynamics of family systems, human reproductive 
health, and population issues, providing students with 
foundational knowledge and practical skills to promote 
well-being in these areas. Through interactive 
discussions, case studies, and project -based learning, 
students will learn to analyze and address current 
challenges related to family life, reproductive health, and 
population education in diverse cultural contexts.  2 C  
EHE218  Human Diseases & Health Protection  2 C  
43 
 This course provides an in -depth understanding of human 
diseases, their causes, transmission, prevention, and 
control. It covers communicable and non -communicable 
diseases, epidemiology, public health interventions, and 
strategies for health protection. The course will also 
explore global  health challenges and emerging health 
threats.  
EHE219  Health Education Practicum I  
This practicum course provides students with hands -on 
experience in applying health education principles in real -
world settings. Students will engage in supervised 
fieldwork, implementing health education programs, 
conducting community outreach, and evaluating public 
health interventions. The course emphasizes experiential 
learning through observation, participation, and direct 
engagement in health educati on activities.  2 C  
EHE220  Food and Human Nutrition  
The fundamentals of human nutrition. Different methods 
of dietary assessment and analysis, nutritional challenges 
of vulnerable population groups and the importance of 
nutrition policy both locally and in a global context. The 
concepts of diet, balanced di et, nutrition, classes of food 
and the importance of each food class to the development 
of the human physiology and health sustenance. 
Maintenance of good nutrition. Consequences of faulty 
nutrition for health (such as nutritional deficiencies, 
nutritional  disorders and stunted growth). Development 
of appropriate nutrition for different age groups and 
conditions and diet appropriate for selected disease 
conditions. Therapeutic diets. Implications of food fads 
and fallacies for health. Malnutrition and types . 
Breastfeeding and complementary feeding. Nutrition 
surveillance; nutrition programmes for sites like 
community, workplace, etc. Food security and safety, 
cultural and environmental factors in food and nutrition; 
problems of over nutrition and diseases of  the affluence. 
Health policies and principles of food choices. 
International/national food policies and programmes are 
discussed.  2 C  
EHE222  Emotional, Mental and Social Health  
This course will explore emotional well -being and mental 
health issues including stress, anxiety, depression, grief, 
self-abuse/suicide, eating disorders, anger and 
oppositional defiance disorders. The determinants of 
emotional and mental health which form  a basis for health 2 C  
44 
 and healthy choices. The principles of promoting 
emotional health and preventing mental illness and the 
relationship between emotional health and social health 
will be discussed. Emphasis needs to be placed on such 
social relationships as social integration or involvement, 
social support and social networking. Strategies for 
enhancing social health in various settings and planning 
for social health, mental health and mental illness, and 
emotional rehabilitation techniques. The crucial 
developmental periods characterized by physical, 
emotional and intellectual changes during adolescent and 
young adulthood. The changes in social roles, 
relationships and expectations during this stage of human 
life. The health needs and health problems arisi ng from 
the developmental characteristics of adolescents and 
adults should be discussed. Resiliency, health choices, 
lifestyle factors affecting overall health and well -being 
along with identification, intervention and referral 
strategies will be examined.   
Social and emotional learning (SEL) five lifelong skills: 
selfawareness self -management, responsible decision -
making, social awareness and relationship skills will 
equally be discussed.  
OOU -EHE201  Emergency Health Care Education  
This course prepare s students to deliver safe, effective 
care during medical emergencies. Core modules cover 
rapid patient assessment, basic and advanced life -support 
(BLS/ALS), trauma management, medical, obstetric and 
paediatric emergencies, mass -casualty triage, disaster 
preparedness, and infection -control in pre -hospital 
settings. Students will practise airway manoeuvres, 
haemorrhage control, splinting, ECG interpretation, drug 
calculations and team leadership through high -fidelity 
simulation, scenario drills and evidence -based case 
discussions. Emphasis is placed on critical thinking, 
communication, ethical decision -making and inter -
professional collaboration under pressure. By course end, 
participants will be able to design and deliver emergency -
care training to diverse audiences, organise community 
first-responder programmes and contribute to emergency -
preparedness policy, thereby reducing preventable deaths 
and disability across all age groups.  2 E 
  
45 
 OOU -EHE203  Healthy Lifestyle Education  
The course is designed to empower learners with the 
knowledge and practical skills needed to lead a healthy 
and balanced life. It explores key aspects of physical, 
mental and emotional well -being, emphasizing the 
importance of adopting sustainable habits. Students will 
learn about nutrition, exercise, stress management, sleep 
hygiene, and role of mindfulness in daily living. Through 
engaging lectures, hands -on activities, and personalized 
goal setting, students will develop strategies to enhance 
their overa ll quality of life.  2 E 
OOU -EHE204  Human Biology II  
All students in human kinetics and Health Education 
majors may benefit from this course during practical 
exposure in the community. It fundamentally entails the 
structure and functions of the three main systems: 
endocrine and nervous and respiratory for better 
knowledge of human body functioning.  2 E 
OOU -EHE205  Mass Media Healthcare Education  
This course explores the role of mass media in healthcare 
education, examining the influence of various media 
channels —television, radio, social media, and print —on 
public health awareness, behavior, and policy. Students 
will learn strategies for designing, producing, and 
evaluating healthcare communication campaigns, with a 
focus on effectively enga ging diverse populations and 
addressing health disparities. Through case studies, 
students will analyze successful health communication 
campaigns and assess ethical considerations in mass 
media healthcare education. This course equips students 
with the kno wledge and skills to leverage mass media for 
effective healthcare education and public health 
advocacy.  2 E 
OOU -EHE206  Patient Health Education  
This course introduces patient health education. It e quips 
patients with the knowledge and skills to understand 
medical terms, health conditions, and treatments, 
enabling them to make informed decisions about their 
health. It Encourage and educate patients about healthy 
lifestyle choices such as proper nutrition, regular 2 E 
46 
 exercise, smoking cessation, and p reventive screenings to 
reduce the risk of disease.  
OOU -EHE208  Introduction to Health Promotion and Health 
Education Theories  
This course introduces knowledge of basic theories as it 
relates to research and practice of Health Education. It 
fundamentally entails the knowledge of Health belief 
Model (HBM), the Transtheoretical Model TM, Theory 
of Reasoned Action and Theory of Plann ed Behaviour 
among others. This is meant to build a comprehensive 
foundation in Students on how to use theories and models 
in conducting Health Education and health promotion 
research interventions.  2 E 
OOU -EHE210  Rural and Urban Health Education  
The course will feature various individual examples 
where the inequity in access to health care can be bridged. 
This course entails rural Health Education knowledge, 
urban Health Education principles, health promotion and 
equity with appropriate data for verif ication and 
application for assessment.  2 E 
OOU -HKE213  Computer Application in Human Kinetics and 
Health Education  
This course introduces students to the basic concepts and 
practical applications of computer technology in the fields of 
Human Kinetics and Health Education. It emphasizes the use 
of computer software and digital tools for data analysis, 
instructional delivery, fitness tracking, health information 
systems, and research documentation.  2 E 
OOU -EDU262  Educational Technology : Concept of Educational 
Technology. Techniques of instruction. Communication 
in education. Cybernetic System, and computer - driven 
technologies for instructions. Educational media - types. 
Design and production of educational media. Utilization, 
and evaluation of educ ational media and resources. 
Community resources - types. Guidelines for effective 
utilization of resources. Concept of programmed 
Instruction and learning. Principles of programmed 
instruction. Development of programmed materials. 
Systems approach to instr uction. Instructional, 
Simulation, and games. Photography in education. Digital 
production of instructional photographs. Concept of 
Educational Resource Centre (ERC). Types and functions 2 C 
47 
 of ERC.  PowerPoint Projector, classroom with interactive 
board, relev ant textbooks, relevant journals, internet 
resources.  
 
EHE 313  Research Methods in Health Education :   
The basic and detailed concepts of definitions, types and 
aims of research in general and in the context of health 
education. Steps in selecting research topics. Research 
procedures and protocol. The role of hypotheses, criteria 
for establishing adequate hypotheses, research questions. 
Research designs and data collection techniques and 
analysis. Independent and dependent variables. Valid ity 
and reliability of research instruments. Content and 
language of research proposals and research reports. 
Fundamentals of quantitative and qualitative research. 
Mixed method approach. Experimental and survey 
researches. Research methods and literature review are 
explored. The use of library and computer in health 
education research.  2 C 
EHE 314  Substance Use and Abuse Prevention  
The basic and detailed concepts of drug, substance use 
and abuse, drug misuse. Rehabilitation techniques 
employed on victims of drug abuse and the effect of drug 
abuse on the body.  
Introducing social, psychological, pharmaceutical and 
cultural aspects of drug use, misuse and abuse. The 
methods, materials and theories of drug abuse prevention 
in the school and community will be introduced. Illicit (e. 
g. Opiates, marijuana, methamphetamines) and licit (such 
as alcohol, tobacco, caffeine) substances. Drug addiction 
and drug dependency. Harmful effects of alcohol and 
tobacco and other narcotic, sedatives, depressants and 
stimulant drugs will be explored. Critical examination of 
the factors associated with the use of these substances and 
methods of prevention. Skills for avoiding destructive 
behaviours, including substance control and cessation 
need to be developed.  
The chemical pha rmacologic, physiological, and socio -
economic use, misuse and abuse of alcohol and such 
psychoactive substances as opiates and opium, such as: 
synthetic narcotics, barbiturates, tranquilizers marijuana 
lysergic and diethylamide (LSD) and 
tranquilizers/stim ulant (cocaine, amphetamine and 
caffeine).  2 C 
  
48 
 EHE 315  Maternal, Infant & Child Health  
The basic and detailed meaning/concept of maternal, 
infant and child health, highlighting historical 
perspective; objectives of Maternal and Child Health 
(MCH) servic es. Elements/components of MCH 
(antenatal care, natal (delivery) care, postpartum care).  
Pregnancy and physiology of pregnancy, labor and child 
birth. Immunizations and maternal morbidity and 
mortality. Safe motherhood and its essential services. 
Empoweri ng women, and major health issues confronting 
women today. Health issues from the traditional medical 
model to the holistic model. Comprehensive overview of 
critical and contemporary women’s health issues.  
Characteristics and health needs of children in early 
childhood period and indices of such children are 
explored. Common ailments of such children and 
protective measures such as EPI, NPI, ORT, Meal, Rest 
and Sleep.  2 C 
EHE 317  Health Psychology and Counselling  
The basic and detailed of he alth psychology and its 
Rationale. Health behaviours; changing health habits; 
stages of behaviour change. Health enhancing and 
compromising behaviours. Stress and coping. The 
behavioural processes around health and sickness. 
Theories explaining health beha viour changes in 
individuals, communities, organizations, and health 
public policy. Factors influencing health behaviour.  
The relationship between health behaviour and longevity. 
Health services utilization and misuse. Patient health care 
provider. Psycho logical issues in advancing and terminal 
illness such as cancer, stroke, HIV and AIDS. The 
principles and techniques of identifying health problems 
with emphasis on personalized approaches. Techniques 
of referral and strategies for meeting identified needs  and 
solving identified problems.  2 C 
EHE 320  First Aid, Accident Prevention and Safety Education  
The basic and detailed concepts of health and safety. 
Meaning and principles of first aid and first aid 
management of selected emergency situations. Accident s, 
accident prevention and management techniques. Safety 
tasks of teachers, accident reporting, safety measures.  
Concepts of safety education and related terminologies. 
Principles and practice of safety in the homes, schools, 
industries, hospitals, sports /homes and other settings. 2 C 
49 
 Safety skills and programmes in schools and general 
safety skills and techniques in schools and environment.  
Analysis of the importance and relevance of safety 
programmes in schools. Safety approaches to 
environmental hazards. T he critical need for safety and 
what the school can do to improve safety conditions. 
Community and industrial safety will be briefly analysed. 
Practical situated sessions are provided to promote 
efficiency in management situations.  
EHE 321  Application of Computer Skills & Informatics in 
Health Education  
The basic and detailed concepts of computer application 
and breaking edge. Application of computer in health 
diagnostics and treatment of complicated ailments. Usage 
of data to improve human  health and health care services. 
Concept of health informatics. Application of medical 
concepts in conjunction with health information 
technology is explored. Roles and goals of health 
informatics. Consumer, clinical, nursing and public 
health informatics .  
Applicable decision analysis techniques and decision 
support systems. Trends in health informatics; health 
informatics technology in population. Human computer 
interaction. Information system in health care; IT and 
cyber security; web technologies and c loud computing; 
Geographic Information System (GIS). Modern 
information technology. Health service statistics. The 
internet. Modern methods for data collection, analysis 
and data transmission (Google survey form). Resource 
management within the health care  field.  2 C 
EHE 322  Life Skills & Skilled -Based Health Education  
this course will expose students the importance of health 
education skills, their relevance and relationships to other 
learned skills; steps for developing health skills; practice 
of health skills using real -life scenarios; key 
considerations of teaching t he skills of health education; 
evaluate the impact of social media and other 
environmental factors in personal and family health; 
demonstrate strategies to prevent, manage or resolve 
interpersonal conflicts without harming self or others; 
apply effective v erbal and non -verbal communication 
skills to enhance relationship health; select a variety of 
communication methods and techniques in providing 
health information; choose healthy alternatives over 
unhealthy alternatives when making a decision about  2 C 
50 
 health ; and list the steps of effective health goal setting.  
EHE 324  Epidemiology of Public Health & Human Biometrics  
Introduction to epidemiology as a basic science for public 
health. Definition and general principles of epidemiology. 
Sequence of epidemiological reasoning. Types of 
epidemiological investigations. The causes, patterns and 
distribution of disease outbreaks  in different populations. 
Epidemiological methods and data; and uses of 
epidemiology. Students learn to read, comprehend and 
prepare epidemiological reports. Methods for monitoring, 
evaluating and managing population health. 
Epidemiology of infectious and  non-infectious diseases is 
explored. Concepts of public health and health practices 
in relation to epidemiology. Surveillance of disease, and 
control and development of infectious diseases are also 
studied. The nature, types, sources and collection of 
health data/human biometrics. Measures of frequency and 
association, introduce the design and validity of 
epidemiologic research, and give an overview of 
appropriate data analysis for understanding population 
health. Definition and calculation of selected com mon 
rates used in public health practice. Principal subdivision  
of vital statistics/human biometrics (morbidity statistics, 
mortality statistics and demographic statistics). The use 
of descriptive and inferential statistical techniques in 
processing and a nalyzing health data.  2 C 
OOU -EHE 316  Health Education for Health Promotion in School and 
Community  
This course introduces knowledge on the key 
characteristics outline that make a school health 
programme that focuses on key behaviours and 
conditions that  affect health and learning in the school, it 
focuses on the development of a nurturing and caring 
environment within the school, home and environment 
with a set clear objective to utilize multiple programme 
components and intervention.  2 E 
OOU -EHE -318 Waste Management Education  
This course introduces knowledge of health education to 
manage waste management issues that has been a hydra -
headed monster in our communities of Nigeria.  
The identification and separation of putrescible and non -
putrescible waste, management of medical waste and its 
associated risk of infection, solid waste management 
issues, and private sector participation in solid waste 2 E 
51 
 management in Nigeria are issues of concern in the course 
of learning the contents of waste mana gement education.  
 OOU -EHE310  Essential Drug Education  
This course introduces knowledge of essential medicines 
to health education. It will provide sound knowledge of 
the relationship between the various classifications of 
drugs and medicines, the pre vention of diseases using 
several prophylactic medicines such as antimalaria, 
antibiotics, haematinics and vaccines.  2 E 
OOU -EHE311  Prevention and Management of Allergy and 
Prophylaxis in School  
This course will equip students with the knowledge and 
skills to reduce the incidence of allergic diseases and to 
control their impact when occur. This knowledge will 
boost the ability of students to design, implement, and 
evaluate comprehensive allergy -prevention programmes 
and evidence -based care pathways for individuals and 
populations. Therefore, the students will be exposed to 
Mechanisms of allergy,  Risk-factor identification,  
Primary prevention, Secondary prevention, Tertiary 
management, and  Public -health and policy dimensions  
(school and workplace allergy action plans, food -
labelling laws, emergency -response systems, and 
community education campaigns).  2 E 
OOU -EHE313  Disease Prevention in Children  
This course introduces knowledge of common d iseases in 
children by offering knowledge of communicable and 
non-communicable diseases in children, determinant of 
health and risk factors in children, vaccination and 
immunization in children, nutrition and related health 
issues in children.  2 E 
OOU -EHE -319 Entrepreneurship in Health Education  
This course introduces knowledge of health education to 
entrepreneurship in health education will help to build a 
career pathway for health education graduates through the 
knowledge of the existing opportuni ties both on -shore 
and off -shore. Students will have idea of all existing 
career opportunities after graduation from the university.  2 E 
EHE 401   Contemporary National Health Programmes , Issues 
and Problems in Public Health  
The concept, aims, objectives and achievements of 
National Health Programmes recorded. Detailed 2 C 
52 
 discussion of such contemporary health programmes as 
health -related sustainable development goals (SDGs), 
various intern ational and national health issues and 
problems.  
Topical health problems as HIV/AIDS, Orphan and 
vulnerable children (OVC). Other contemporary 
problems and issues in health and Health Education. 
Development and organization of public health in 
Nigeria. Po pulation and public health. Government and 
public health. Fundamental services in public health 
community nursing services, social services, health 
education and motivation, medical care delivery, 
emergency health services and future of health services. 
NGOs efforts towards ensuring sustainability of health 
standards. Concepts of public health and resultant health -
related issues emanating from human activities and 
behaviours. Types and characteristics of health care 
systems, viz; orthodox medicine, traditio nal medicine, 
homeopathic medicine and spiritual healing. The three -
tier or levels of health care delivery system outlines in the 
national health policy should be discussed, viz: primary 
health care; secondary health care; and tertiary health 
care. Special ization in health field as well as job 
opportunities.  
EHE 402   Occupational and Industrial Health   
Meaning, rationale and historical background of 
occupational health with emphasis on Nigeria. 
Advantages of occupational health. Responsibilities of 
employees in work environment. Occupational safety. 
Occupational hazards and hygiene. National and 
international labour legislations. Concepts of human and 
environmental health in relation to the effects of the 
operation of industries. Security and safety in the 
industries. Industrial affluence control. Health and safety 
of industrial workers. Community health and safety.  2 C 
EHE 403   Health Economics & Consumerism  
Concepts of economics and health economics. Health and 
environmental determinants, demand and supply in health 
care. Costs in health care and benefit analysis. Structure, 
conduct, performance and market analysis. Hospital 
services industry, health care ser vices utilization, health 
care industry and health insurance. Economic 
considerations in health care and health care as an 
economic commodity. Health care financing, planning, 
budgeting and decision making and health and 2 C 
53 
 social/economic development in Nige ria are also 
explored.  
Definition of consumer health and a study of existing 
measures designed for the safety of products, information 
and services for consumers, including the concepts and 
recognition of health quackery and nostrum. Practicing 
consumer s kills, realizing the implication of 
advertisement for health and making informed choices. 
Psychological factors in consumerism.  
Healing philosophies, food faddism, and weight control, 
consumer protection. Dangers of misleading adverts of 
processed food it ems and roles of government and health 
agencies in consumer protection. Wise usage of consumer 
products and the avoidance of health quack services and 
products.  
EHE 404   Organisation , Planning and Evaluation of Health 
Education Programmes  
The development, organization and programming of 
activities in public health. Application of the principles 
and steps in planning school and Health Education 
programme in primary and secondary school s. 
Measurement of needs. Multi -sectorial approach; 
measurement and mobilization of resources. The national 
health science curriculum is studied. Evaluation and 
types; mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of 
health services, outcomes and impact.  
Activi ties of health personnel in evaluation. Use of 
programme evaluation techniques in public health 
education programmes. Detailed discussion of the 
application of administrative and supervisory principles 
and techniques in achieving the goals and objectives o f 
the health programmes. Programme organization and 
evaluation. Personnel problems. National policies. Public 
relations. Budgeting, working  with staff members, 
student teachers and students in the discipline would be 
examined. Group of students will be req uired to assess 
community needs and resources as well as plan health 
education programmes.  2 C 
EHE 407   Seminar in Health Education   
The development, organization and programming of 
activities in public health. Application of the principles 
and steps in planning school and Health Education 
programme in primary and secondary schools. 
Measurement of needs. Multi -sectorial approach; 
measur ement and mobilization of resources. The national 2 C 
54 
 health science curriculum is studied. Evaluation and 
types; mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of 
health services, outcomes and impact.  
Activities of health personnel in evaluation. Use of 
programme evaluation techniques in public health 
education programmes. Detailed discussion of the 
application of administrative and supervisory principles 
and techniques in achieving the goals and objectives of 
the health programmes. Programme organization and 
evalu ation. Personnel problems. National policies.  
Public relations. Budgeting, working  with staff members, 
student teachers and students in the discipline would be 
examined. Group of students will be required to assess 
community needs and resources as well as  plan health 
education programmes.  
EHE 408  Global Health, National Health Laws, Policies and 
Advocacy    
Globalization and health. Mechanisms of global health 
co-operation. Bilateral and multilateral agencies. Non -
Governmental Organizations.  Intergovernmental 
agencies;  private  foundations. Public -private partnerships 
in global health. International health regulations; 
International and national port health programmes. 
History of Global health, its determinants and 
development as  a field of study. The inter -connection 
between health problems in developed and developing 
countries and the interdisciplinary approach necessary to 
understand and address health problems and issues. The 
health status in regions of the world and various 
populations within those regions. Health disparities. 
Health laws; personnel that enact health laws; its 
application and enforcement; registration of schools, 
medical personnel, births and deaths. Health Politics and 
behaviour change programmes of various k inds. The 
influence of the 21stcentury health and health care 
environment. The three -tiers of health care in the current 
health policy and strategy. Improvements in International 
AID policies. health advocacy; methods of advocacy; 
technologies used in advo cacy; advocacy strategies for 
health and development; advocacy and mediation in 
creating supportive environments for health.  2 C 
55 
 EHE 409   Curriculum Development & Innovation in Health 
Education   
Meaning and steps in curriculum development. Current 
patte rns of curriculum development in health education, 
including innovations in curricular approaches. A range 
of theories and approaches to curriculum development. 
Sessions will be literature informed but activity and 
discussion -based with an expectation of a  high degree of 
collaboration and participation. The importance of 
curricular alignment including connections between 
course outcomes/goals, delivery of instruction, and the 
assessment and evaluation of learning in health education.  
The importance of desi gning and developing positive 
learning environments with a focus on how curricular 
design promotes learning in health education settings. 
The course is organized in such a way as to balance theory 
and practice and to support both conceptual and skill 
devel opment. Curriculum implementation. Feedback / 
evaluation. New trends in curriculum  
development.  2 C 
EHE 410   Geriatrics & Death Education   
Concept of geriatrics/geriatric care. Myths of ageing. The 
process of ageing. Physical and psychosocial changes of 
ageing. Meeting the special needs and methods of care of 
the elderly in different setting. Challenges/factors 
affecting ageing. Theories of a geing and hospice care for 
the terminally ill. Confusion and disorientation in the 
elderly. Preparation for retirement, and ageing and 
worksite health promotion. Emphasis is given to the 
changes in a variety of health areas including, but not 
limited to, p hysical activity, nutrition, mental health, 
long-term care, sexuality, and death, dying and grief. 
Concepts of death and death education.  
Orientations and approaches to death education. Attitudes 
to death including funeral rites/customs. Grief, 
bereavemen t, wills and probate. Death education 
curriculum and content areas for death education 
programme.  2 C 
OOU -EHE405  Health Education Practicum II  
This practicum course provides students with hands -on 
experience in applying health education principles in real -
world settings. Students will engage in supervised 2 E 
56 
 fieldwork, implementing health education programs, 
conducting community outreach, and evaluating public 
health interventions. The course emphasizes experiential 
learning through observat ion, participation, and direct 
engagement in health education activities.  
OOU -EHE411  Care of Special Senses in School and Community : is 
designed to equip Health Education students with the 
knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary for promoting and 
maintaining the health of the five special senses : eyes, ears, 
nose, tongue, and skin. The course introduces students to the 
anatomy and physiology of these organs, explores common 
disorders that affect them, and highlights practical approach es 
to the care, hygiene  practices , prevention  of trauma and 
diseases , and first aid  care and management . Emphasis is 
placed on the role of nutrition, environmental and occupational 
influences, and lifestyle factors in maintaining sensory health. 
Students w ill also learn to design and implement health 
education strategies for schools and communities, focusing on 
early detection, screening, and referral practices.  Through 
interactive lectures, group discussions, demonstrations, role -
play, and field visits, st udents will develop competence in 
preventive care, hygiene practices, and health promotion for 
special senses. Ultimately, the course prepares them to 
advocate for sensory health as a vital component of overall 
well-being, safety, communication, and  
 2 E 
OOU -EHE -416 Exercise, Fitness and Health  
This course introduces knowledge of exercise and fitness 
education to health education. It will provide sound 
knowledge of the relationship between the prevention of 
diseases/ conditions relating to musculoskeletal system, 
cardiopulmonary health conditions, degenerative health 
issues, rehabilitation during convalescence and improved 
well-being.  2 E 
OOU -EHE -418 Social Marketing and Health  
This course introduces knowledge of social marketing as 
a model to support the application of other theories and 
models in improving positive health behavior of some 
special people. Adherence to some important positive 
health behaviour has been limited by some factors which 
are beyond the control of some individuals. Some of the 
limiting factors are: financial inaccessibility, 2 E 
57 
 geographical inaccessibility and lack of knowledge 
among others.  
 
 
 
 