COURSE CODE: OOU – EDU 201
COURSE TITLE: CURRICULUM AND TEACHING METHODS.
LECTURER-IN-CHARGE: DR ODUBELA
DATE: FRIDAY, 7TH NOVEMBER 2025.

WEEK 1: COURSE OUTLINE

WHAT IS CURRICULUM
Curriculum is a program of activities of institutions structures. It is also a general outline of what is to be learnt.
Curriculum is high planned and unplanned activities of teachers and learners for the purposes of academic achievement.

LECTURE 2
TOPIC: CONCEPT OF CURRICULUM
Curriculum can be summarized into three things:
Program of activities
Program of instructions
Program of guidance.

Franklin Bobbitt 1918, defined curriculum as a series of things which children and youth must do and experience by way of developing abilities to do the things well that make up the affairs of adult life, and should be in all respects what adults should be.
Caswell and Campbell 1935, defined curriculum as all the experiences children have under the guidance of the teacher.

Festo 1956, defined that curriculum must consists essentially of disciplined study in five great areas:
Commands of mother tongue and systematic study of grammar, literature and writing.
Mathematics.
Sciences.
History.
Foreign languages. (Ralph Tyler)

Daniel & Laurel Tanner 1988, defined that curriculum is the reconstruction of knowledge and experiences, systematically developed under the guidance of the school to enable the learner’s increase his/her control of knowledge and experience. (Hilda Taba)

Ralph Tyler 1957, defined curriculum as all the learning of students’, which are planned and directed by the school, to attain its educational goals.

TYPES OF CURRICULUMS
Child centered
Teacher centered
Core
Written
Hidden
Integrated
Subject centered
Holistic
Activity centered
Null.

LECTURE 3
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND ELEMENTS OF CURRICULUM
Curriculum development process is a process that typically involves planning, designing, implementation and evaluation. It is cyclic in nature.
It begins with setting educational goals and accessing the needs, then moves to designing the curriculum through implementation in the classroom and finally to evaluation, revision and feedbacks.
There are four stages involved:
Stage 1 – Curriculum Planning Stage
Identify the needs.
Set the goals.
Develop a clear learning outcome.
Stage 2 – Curriculum Design Stage
Select your content.
Select your learning.
Stage 3 – Curriculum Implementation Stage
Develop your materials.
Train the teacher’s or trainers.
Facilitate.
Stage 4 – Curriculum Evaluation Stage
Review what you have learnt. Review your activity.
Evaluate.
Feedbacks.

ELEMENTS OF CURRICULUM
Curriculum Objectives: Derived from the needs of the learners, society.
Curriculum Contents: This refers to the subject matter. What you want to teach. It is gotten from resources around, library, websites, demands of the society.
Curriculum Methods & Materials: This is called the “learning experiences”. (a) Why do I want to teach? (b) With what do I want to teach?
Curriculum Evaluation: Divided into two – formative and summative evaluation (carried out at the end of the lesson).
Domains you evaluate on:
Psychomotor domain – Deals with skills or practices gained.
Affective domain – Deals with behavioral changes (values and attitudes).
Cognitive domain – Deals with the intellectual knowledge gained. This is what you know and comprehend.